Aerys II Targaryen, also called The Mad King, ruled the Seven Kingdoms as Aerys II shortly before the events of A Song of Ice and Fire and was the last Targaryen king. When he first took the throne, he was said to have been generous and charming, though short-tempered and prone to fits of madness. With the help of his many Hands of the King, the kingdom enjoyed many years of peace and the treasury was well-stocked with gold. In accordance with ancient Targaryen practice, he married his sister Rhaella, but their marriage was not a happy one and became abusive towards the end. They had three children, Rhaegar, Viserys, and Daenerys. As his reign continued, Aerys's behavior became increasingly erratic and his fits of madness becoming more frequent. A defining moment occurred when, while trying to arrest Lord Denys Darklyn of Duskendale for openly defying him, Aerys was taken prisoner and held captive for six months before being rescued by Ser Barristan Selmy. Shaken by this experience, Aerys's descent into madness worsened, and he eventually became a cruel and sadistic man driven by paranoia and capriciousness. He was also obsessed with fire and burned many people alive, to the point of being sexually aroused by the sight of seeing people burning alive.

His paranoia led to him developing phobias of poisoning and sharp implements, the latter from many cuts on the Iron Throne, becoming gaunt and frail with long hair and nails while allowing only his Kingsguard to have swords in his presence. After Rhaegar and Lyanna Stark disappeared, House Stark and Lyanna's betrothed Robert Baratheon believed her to have been abducted and Aerys responded to the allegation with the horrific execution of Lyanna's brother and father. Shortly after, several houses rebelled and Aerys planned to have King's Landing be burned to the ground with all its inhabitants rather that allow the rebels to take the city. Before this could be done, Aerys is fatally stabbed from behind by his Kingsguard Jaime Lannister, uttering his intent to burn them all in his dying breath. Liam Burke was cast as the Mad King for a flashback scene in the HBO adaptation, but it was cut for timing and pacing.