Ser Arys Oakheart is a knight of King Robert Baratheon's Kingsguard, and for Robert's subsequent heirs.[119] He serves as the third-person narrator for one chapter in A Feast for Crows. In A Clash of Kings, he serves King Joffrey Baratheon. When ordered to strike Sansa Stark, he does so as lightly as possible and only after objecting to the command. Because of this, Sansa regards him as one of the kinder members of the Kingsguard.[121] Arys later accompanies Myrcella Baratheon to Dorne.[122] Arianne Martell seduces him in A Feast for Crows to win his support for Myrcella's claim on the throne of the Seven Kingdoms. She promises that Myrcella will allow Arys to marry Arianne, although Kingsguard renounce marriage.[87] When the plot is foiled, Arys refuses to surrender and is killed by Areo Hotah.[88]

Ser Ilyn Payne is the King's Justice, the royal executioner. Before the events of the series, King Aerys II Targaryen ordered his tongue cut out because he remarked that Tywin Lannister, Hand of the King at the time, was the true ruler. His muteness, added to his pockmarked face and overall grim appearance, is said to terrify many characters and make him much more effective as an executioner. He is a skilled headsman, seldom requiring a second stroke to finish his charges, and has been said to have no life apart from killing. When King Joffrey Baratheon sentences Lord Eddard Stark to death at the end of A Game of Thrones, Ilyn executes Eddard with the Lord's own greatsword, Ice. Ilyn takes the sword as his own until it is melted down to create two new swords for the House Lannister. In A Feast for Crows, Ilyn starts traveling with Jaime Lannister and spars with him nightly to help Jaime learn to fight with his left hand as the right was cut off. Jaime chooses Ilyn because he can neither talk nor write and cannot reveal how poor a swordsman Jaime has become. This also leads Jaime to tell the headsman about his past sins and about the incestuous relationship between him and his sister Cersei Lannister. Ilyn Payne is played by Wilko Johnson in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 41]