Balon Swann is a knight and the second son of the lord of House Swann. He is a member of the court in King's Landing and is noted to be a capable warrior. He participates in the Tourney of the Hand in A Game of Thrones but is defeated by Gregor Clegane in the jousting and comes second in the archery tournament. In A Clash of Kings he is promoted to the Kingsguard after the death of Preston Greenfield during the riot in King's Landing. Tyrion Lannister sees him as a capable knight and thinks that Balon will make a good Kingsguard. During the battle of the Blackwater, he proves to be worthy of his place in the Kingsguard and fights alongside Tyrion Lannister. He survives the battle; Jaime Lannister thinks Balon is well suited to the white cloak and regards him as a good and valiant knight, and perhaps the only honorable member among them. In A Feast for Crows, he is sent to Dorne with Gregor Clegane's skull as part of an arrangement to pacify Dorne, and presents it to Prince Doran Martell in A Dance with Dragons. Doran later reveals to the Sand Snakes that Balon is part of a plot organised by Cersei to kill Trystane Martell and blame it on Tyrion; according to a Martell informant in King's Landing, the party will be attacked on route by outlaws crying "Halfman" and Ser Balon will falsely claim to catch a glimpse of Tyrion. Doran also claims that while Balon does not approve of his orders, he is compelled to obey them as a knight of the Kingsguard, regardless of his personal feelings. To gain time Doran has Myrcella Baratheon compel Balon to hunt for Ser Gerold Dayne, who wounded Myrcella. Balon is guided by the Sand Snake Obara Sand to High Hermitage, the castle of House Dayne where Ser Gerold had fled.

Drogo is a powerful khal, or warlord, of the Dothraki people, a tribal nation of expert riders and raiders in the steppes beyond the Free Cities. He is an accomplished warrior and has never been defeated in battle. In A Game of Thrones, Viserys Targaryen and Illyrio Mopatis conspire to marry Daenerys Targaryen to Khal Drogo to get his support and warriors for the invasion of Westeros. Drogo approves of her and takes her as his wife. Despite his fearsome attitude toward his warriors, he proves to be a kind, sensitive and loving husband. After a failed attempt on the pregnant Daenerys's life, he vows to invade Westeros to reclaim the Seven Kingdoms for the Targaryens and his son. However, Viserys's impertinence ultimately causes Drogo to kill him. He raids several villages and attacks other Dothraki hordes to gather supplies for the invasion and is wounded by an enemy khal. The wound festers and Drogo falls from his horse, causing most of his warriors to abandon him. Daenerys unwittingly sacrifices their unborn son to revive him, and he becomes an unresponsive shell of his former self. She smothers him out of pity, and the flames of his funeral pyre hatch her dragon eggs. He is the namesake of her favorite dragon, the powerful, black Drogon. Khal Drogo is played by Jason Momoa in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 2] In Valar Morghulis, Daenerys is briefly reunited with Drogo and Rhaego in the House of the Undying, which does not happen in the books.