Balon Greyjoy is the Lord of the Iron Islands, King of Salt and Rock, Son of the Sea Wind, and Lord Reaper of Pyke.[3] He is a harsh and fierce man devoted, in most respects, to Ironborn custom, though he sees his daughter Asha as his successor when custom dictates a woman cannot lead.[80] Ten years before A Song of Ice and Fire, he led a rebellion against King Robert Baratheon. The rebellion failed and his youngest son Theon Greyjoy was taken as a political hostage and raised in Winterfell by Lord Eddard Stark. After Robert's death, Balon spurns Robb Stark's offer of an alliance in a Clash of Kings and declares himself King of the Iron Islands and the North.[81] He captures the Neck and ravages the coastline of the Stark-held North. He dies in A Storm of Swords after falling off a bridge during a storm.[82] The timely return of Balon's banished brother Euron leads many characters to believe that Euron played a part in Balon's death. Balon Greyjoy is played by Patrick Malahide in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 27]

Asha Greyjoy is Balon Greyjoy's only daughter and oldest living child. She serves as the third-person narrator for four total chapters throughout A Feast for Crows and A Dance with Dragons. As her brother Theon became a political hostage and was taken from the Iron Islands, Asha was raised as Balon's heir despite the fact that custom dictates women cannot rule the Iron Islands. She is fierce, bold and proud, and she has defied her people's traditional gender roles by captaining her own ship and leading men into battle. When Balon orders an invasion of the North in A Clash of Kings, she captures Deepwood Motte. She returns to the Islands in A Storm of Swords after her father's death and claims her father's throne. However, the next king is to be determined through a meeting called Kingsmoot, which she refers to as her Queensmoot. She promises peace with mainland Westeros in exchange for land, and she gains more support than expected. However, her uncle Euron is named king. She refuses to accept the decision and flees the Islands. In A Dance with Dragons, she returns to Deepwood Motte and learns that Euron has married her off using a seal as a stand-in.[83] She is eventually captured by Stannis Baratheon and travels with his army toward Winterfell.[84] The army is halted by heavy snows and begins to starve, causing Stannis's men to demand Asha be burned and sacrificed to the god R'hllor in an attempt to stop the snow. Asha is later reunited with her brother Theon, though she does not recognize him at first.[27] In an excerpt from the upcoming novel The Winds of Winter, Asha goes before Stannis and tries to offer a ransom for Theon, but Stannis insists that Theon must die for killing Eddard Stark's sons or all of the northmen will abandon Stannis. She convinces Stannis to execute Theon as Eddard would have: personally beheading him before a Weirwood tree and giving him to the Old Gods.[S 10] In the television adaptation of the novels, the character is renamed Yara Greyjoy to avoid confusion with a character named Osha. Yara is played by Gemma Whelan.[S 28][S 29]