Ser Barristan Selmy, called Barristan the Bold, is hailed as a hero throughout Westeros and is the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard. He serves as the third-person narrator for four chapters in A Dance with Dragons. Although he is over sixty at the start of the series, he remains a remarkable fighter and is the most celebrated and respected living knight. He has been a member of the Kingsguard for most of his life and served three kings. He remained loyal to House Targaryen during Robert Baratheon's rebellion, but he later accepted Robert's pardon and held his position as commander. He was the only member of the small council, beside Ned Stark, to protest against the decision to assassinate Daenerys Targaryen. He remains Lord Commander until after Robert's death in A Game of Thrones. King Joffrey dismisses him on the grounds of his age, though the true reason is to offer the empty spot to Sandor Clegane and let Jaime Lannister take his place as Lord Commander. Selmy refused the offer of land and a castle the Lannisters make to placate him, considering it an insult and storms out of court. An angry remark he makes in the heat of the moment is taken by Joffrey as treasonous, but Selmy kills the gold cloaks sent to arrest him and flees. Selling his armour and growing his hair and beard, Selmy hides in King's Landing as a beggar for a time, during which he witnesses Ned Stark's execution. Afterwards, Selmy reevaluates his years of service and comes to the conclusion that he must find the true king and die in his service. In A Clash of Kings, he begins serving the exiled princess Daenerys Targaryen under the name Astan Whitebeard, hiding his identity to determine if she is of sound mind. He reveals his true identity in A Storm of Swords and exposes Ser Jorah Mormont, Daenerys's most trusted adviser, as a former spy for Robert. Selmy is sent through the sewers on a near-suicidal mission to capture Meereen. After Ser Barristan survives, he asks Daenerys to forgive him for betraying her family. He is pardoned and is named Lord Commander of her Queensguard. When Daenerys disappears in A Dance with Dragons and is thought dead, her husband disbands the Queensguard. Selmy believes she is still alive and removes her husband from power. He then reluctantly rules Meereen in her stead under the title the Queen's Hand, and he desperately tries to save the city from a plague, the wrath of Daenerys's uncontrollable dragons and impending war until she returns.[94] Barristan Selmy is played by Ian McElhinney in the television adaptation of the novels.[S 1][S 2]

Ser Arys Oakheart is a knight of King Robert Baratheon's Kingsguard, and for Robert's subsequent heirs.[119] He serves as the third-person narrator for one chapter in A Feast for Crows. In A Clash of Kings, he serves King Joffrey Baratheon. When ordered to strike Sansa Stark, he does so as lightly as possible and only after objecting to the command. Because of this, Sansa regards him as one of the kinder members of the Kingsguard.[121] Arys later accompanies Myrcella Baratheon to Dorne.[122] Arianne Martell seduces him in A Feast for Crows to win his support for Myrcella's claim on the throne of the Seven Kingdoms. She promises that Myrcella will allow Arys to marry Arianne, although Kingsguard renounce marriage.[87] When the plot is foiled, Arys refuses to surrender and is killed by Areo Hotah.[88]