Bran Stark is the second son and fourth child of Eddard Stark and Catelyn Stark. He serves as the third-person narrator of twenty-one chapters throughout A Game of Thrones, A Clash of Kings, A Storm of Swords, and A Dance with Dragons. He is an adventurous and tough-minded boy who believes himself almost an adult at seven-years-old. To his mother's distress, he enjoys exploring Winterfell and scaling the external walls of its towers. He dreams of becoming a great knight. In A Game of Thrones, he sees Queen Cersei and her brother Jaime Lannister having sex. Jaime pushes Bran from the window to keep the relationship secret. However, Bran survives. He suffers a broken back and falls into a coma. An assassin tries to kill him, but his then direwolf companion, Summer, kills the assassin. While comatose, Bran has many visions, including a dream that he is following and a three-eyed crow tells him that it can teach him to fly. Bran eventually wakes from his coma and immediately names his direwolf Summer. He finds that he is crippled from the waist down, forced to be carried everywhere by Hodor, and he cannot remember the events immediately before his fall. Slowly, he realizes that he has gained the ability to assume Summer's consciousness, making him a warg or a skinchanger. After his older brother Robb is crowned King in the North, Bran becomes Robb's heir and the Lord of Winterfell. In A Clash of Kings, Jojen Reed recognizes Bran's ability as a warg and teaches him how to use his skills properly. Jojen also claims that if Bran travels north beyond the Wall, he can find the three-eyed crow. After Theon Greyjoy captures Winterfell, Bran goes into hiding. To cement his claim on Winterfell, Theon kills a common-born boy and tells Westeros that Bran is dead. Bran, Jojen, and Meera Reed eventually head north in A Storm of Swords. During his travels with the Reeds, he finds himself increasingly attracted to Meera. He eventually finds the three-eyed crow in A Dance with Dragons, who is revealed to be Brynden Rivers, a bastard of House Targaryen, former King's Hand, and once Lord Commander of the Night's Watch. From him, Bran learns how to be a greenseer—one who has magical powers over nature, has prophetic visions, and has skinchanging abilities. He is able to see into the past through weirwoods trees, though he cannot change the past. Bran Stark is portrayed by Isaac Hempstead-Wright in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 1][S 2]

Rickon Stark is Eddard Stark's youngest child and is three years old in A Game of Thrones.[3] His age makes it difficult for him to cope with the terrible changes brought by war. He is naturally aggressive, strong-willed, and has a violent temper, traits reflected in his direwolf companion Shaggydog. He has not trained Shaggydog, and the direwolf has become savage as a result.[4] When Theon Greyjoy captures Winterfell in A Clash of Kings, Rickon hides in the crypts. After Winterfell is sacked and burned in A Clash of Kings, he and the wildling woman Osha travel through the North.[5] In A Dance with Dragons, he is said to be on the island of cannibals, called Skagos.[6] Rickon Stark is portrayed by Art Parkinson in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 1][S 7]