Ser Brynden Tully, called the Blackfish, is the younger brother of Hoster Tully and the uncle of Catelyn Stark, Lysa Arryn, and Edmure Tully. He constantly quarreled with his brother, usually over Brynden's refusal to be married. During one encounter Hoster called him the black goat of House Tully. Brynden mused that since their sigil was fish, he was the "Blackfish" of the family. He accompanied Lysa to the Vale and was named Knight of the Gate by Jon Arryn.[43] In A Game of Thrones, he is upset over the Vale's neutrality in the ongoing war. He resigns from his position and joins Robb Stark and his bannermen. He is appointed head of Robb's outriders and is a crucial member of the war council. His efforts win Robb several battles throughout A Clash of Kings. He is named Warden of the Southern Marches in A Storm of Swords and remains at Riverrun while Robb goes to the Twins to attend Edmure's wedding. After Robb's death, Brynden holds Riverrun in Robb's name. He is besieged by House Lannister and House Frey in A Feast for Crows. Edmure, the Lord of Riverrun, surrenders the castle, but he helps Brynden escape. His whereabouts are unknown. Brynden Tully is portrayed by Clive Russell in the third season of the television adaptation of the novels.[S 34]

Walder Frey is Lord of the Twins, a castle straddling the Trident River. Called the Lord of the Crossing as the placement of his castle allows him to control who crosses the river, Frey is considered an important ally of strategic importance despite being a vain, ambitious, and untrustworthy man capable of holding grudges. Although he is elderly and suffering from gout, he maintains an active hand in running his House of which he is known for having over a hundred descendants and also equally famous having lived longer than his wives. By the start of the series, he has married his eighth wife. He emphasizes family loyalty and believes in taking care of relations, including those who disappoint him. However, his numerous heirs do not share the sentiment and viciously battle for his favor, some believing that they would turn on each other the moment Walder dies. In addition to his role in the A Song of Ice and Fire series, his four-year-old self makes a short appearance in the Tales of Dunk and Egg novella The Mystery Knight. Although he is a bannerman of House Tully, he does not immediately go to Riverrun when Edmure Tully summons his bannermen to support Robb Stark in A Game of Thrones.