Ser Davos Seaworth, called the Onion Knight and sometimes Shorthand, is the common-born head of the newly founded House Seaworth and was formerly known as the most notorious and most elusive smuggler in the Seven Kingdoms. He is introduced in A Clash of Kings and is the third-person narrator for a total of thirteen chapters throughout A Clash of Kings, A Storm of Swords, and A Dance with Dragons. In his smuggling days, he was said to handle a ship at night better than anyone. Before the events of the series, he earned his knighthood by smuggling fish and onions to the besieged Stannis Baratheon and his army during Robert Baratheon's rebellion. Before knighting him, Stannis removed the last joints from four fingers on Davos's left hand as punishment for years of smuggling; believing these joints bought his wife and seven sons a better future, Davos keeps them in a pouch around his neck for luck until they are lost in the Battle of the Blackwater.[65][67][68] In A Clash of Kings, he loyally supports Stannis's claim to the throne and his honesty and willingness to voice his unaltered opinion make him Stannis's most trusted adviser, though Stannis often dislikes what he hears.[65] However, Davos is a follower of the Faith of the Seven and cannot bring himself to accept or trust the priestess Melisandre and her god R'hllor. He does not object to her because Stannis is also a follower of R'hllor.[69] He fights in the Battle of the Blackwater, an attack on King's Landing that ends in the slaughter of Stannis's troops; Davos's four eldest sons are killed and Davos himself seemingly perishes.[70][71] In A Storm of Swords, he is revealed to have barely survived.[68] He blames Melisandre for the deaths of his sons and plans to kill her, but she foresees the attempt and has him jailed.[71][72] Stannis pardons Davos and raises him to Lord of the Rainwood and names him Hand of the King, a position Davos reluctantly accepts.[73] Feeling that a Hand cannot be illiterate, he learns to read and write and inadvertently reads the Night's Watch's letter calling for aid.[74] Davos convinces Stannis to help the Watch defend against the wildling army.[73][75] While Stannis sails to the Wall, Davos goes to White Harbor in the North to negotiate an alliance with Lord Manderly, who takes him captive.[76][77] In A Feast for Crows, Manderly is ordered to execute Davos in exchange for Manderly's son.[78] Soon after, Davos's head and hands are said to be displayed on the city walls.[79] A Dance with Dragons reveals that Manderly executed a similar-looking criminal instead. Davos is secretly and comfortably held in a cell and is released upon the return of Manderly's son. Manderly will pledge White Harbor's support, and promises most of the North will follow suit, if Davos uses his smuggling skills to recover Manderly's liege lord Rickon Stark, who was previously thought dead. Upon learning the boy's whereabouts, implied to be the northern island of Skagos, Davos considers returning to his cell better than sailing through dangerous waters to where cannibals live.[6] Davos Seaworth is played by Liam Cunningham in the television adaptation of the novels.[S 22][S 1] Because Cunningham is left-handed, the writers decided to shorten the fingers on the character's right hand instead of his left.[S 23]

Lord Renly Baratheon is the younger brother of Robert Baratheon and Stannis Baratheon. He is described as handsome and charismatic, winning friends easily, but many characters view him as frivolous and believe he sees everything, including the war for the kingship, as a game. By the beginning of A Game of Thrones, he is made Lord of Storm's End, the seat of House Baratheon. This greatly upsets Stannis as Storm's End is supposed to go to the older brother; the castle is also much larger and richer and therefore gives Renly more power. Eventually, Renly is called to King's Landing to serve on Robert's council as master of laws, his lawmaker. As Robert is dying, Renly approaches Eddard Stark suggesting they seize control of the Iron Throne before Queen Cersei Lannister could take it for herself. When Eddard refuses as Stannis is rightful heir, Renly leaves the city. After Robert dies, Renly declares himself King of the Seven Kingdoms in A Clash of Kings and wins the support of the Baratheon bannermen and the support of other houses, despite Stannis's better claim. He also seals an alliance with House Tyrell by marrying Margaery Tyrell. In the television series, he changes his coat of arms to a golden crowned stag on Tyrell green to reflect this. He leads his army slowly through southern Westeros, biding his time. He lets his enemies House Lannister and House Stark wear each other out and hosts tournaments while waiting. He is forced to change tactics when Stannis marches against him. While preparing for battle, Renly is killed by a mysterious shadow. Renly Baratheon is portrayed by Gethin Anthony in the television adaptation of the novels.[S 1] The adaptation openly depicts Renly and Ser Loras Tyrell as lovers, an interaction obliquely addressed in the novels.[S 24][S 25] Martin has pointed out that due to the fact that neither Renly or (as of A Dance With Dragons) Loras are viewpoint characters, a sexual relationship could only be confirmed if the characters were caught in flagrante delicto, which - due to the strong repercussions against such relationships - would have affected their plotlines substantially.