Doran Martell is the Prince of Dorne and the Lord of Sunspear. He is the father of Arianne, Quentyn, and Trystane. By A Game of Thrones, he is in his fifties; and his gout leaves him barely able to walk and dependent on a wheeled chair. He spends most of his time at the Water Gardens, the Martells' summer home, watching children play. To hide his weakness from his enemies, he avoids the common people and holds audiences only with trusted courtiers and advisers. Unlike the other Martells and the general population of Dorne, he is a cautious, pensive man who does not display his emotions. Because of this, his family sees him as weak; but the other lords of Westeros consider him dangerous. In A Clash of Kings, he refuses to swear allegiance to King Joffrey Baratheon and considers supporting the rebel Renly Baratheon. He swears loyalty to Joffrey after Tyrion Lannister sends Myrcella Baratheon to Dorne and engages her to Trystane; offers justice for his murdered sister Elia; and gives him a position on Joffrey's council. In A Storm of Swords, Doran sends his brother Oberyn to claim the justice and the position. After Oberyn's death, Doran refuses to start a war and returns to Sunspear in A Feast for Crows to show the people he still holds the power. He imprisons Oberyn's warlike daughters, called the Sand Snakes, to maintain peace. After foiling his daughter Arianne's attempt to crown Myrcella the Queen of the Seven Kingdoms, he reveals that he has long been planning the downfall of Tywin Lannister to avenge Elia and intends to ally with House Targaryen. In A Dance with Dragons, he is again offered a seat on the King's council; and Trystane is invited to King's Landing. However, Doran knows that this is a ploy to ambush the pair on the journey and kill Trystane. Instead, he sends one of Oberyn's daughters to take the position. Later, he hears a fleet of ships is sailing to Westeros and prepares the armies of Dorne to strike.

Arianne Martell is the oldest child and only daughter of Prince Doran Martell of Dorne. She serves as the third-person narrator for two chapters in A Feast for Crows, and she is confirmed to narrate at least two chapters in the upcoming novel The Winds of Winter.[S 6] By Dornish custom, she is the heiress to Sunspear and will inherit the rule of Dorne. Despite her beauty and high birth, she is still unmarried, partially because she found all of the matches her father made insulting. She is calculating, adventurous, and fierce. She is also close with her cousins, the Sand Snakes. By A Storm of Swords, she has been long dissatisfied with her father and his style of rule, believing him to be weak. As Doran's heir, she is allowed to hold titular governance of Dorne while he is away. She plans to name Myrcella Baratheon the Queen of the Seven Kingdoms, as by Dornish law Myrcella inherits the title over her brother. Arianne seduces Arys Oakheart to win his support of Myrcella's claim and tells him that Myrcella will allow them to marry although he took a vow renouncing marriage. She knew that crowning Myrcella would start a war and then she could earn vengeance for the death of her uncle Oberyn. The plot is foiled. She confronts her father and tells him that she believes he intended to deny her inheritance. However, he reveals that he secretly betrothed her to Viserys Targaryen as part of a plan to exact vengeance on Tywin Lannister. He made her insulting matches for marriage so that she would not accept them and ruin the plan.