Eddard "Ned" Stark was the Lord of Winterfell and Warden of the North, and briefly served as Hand of the King to Robert Baratheon. He was a POV character for fifteen chapters in A Game of Thrones, the first novel of the series (and the only one in which he was present.) While other lords in the Seven Kingdoms often noted that Ned was cold and prickly, he is warm and loving to his family and friends. He is also respected throughout the realm as an admired lord who is dedicated to duty and honor. He possesses the Stark features of black hair and gray eyes. The only two of his children that inherited these features were Jon and Arya.

The second son of Lord Rickard Stark, Ned was sent to the Vale as a young boy to be fostered by Lord Jon Arryn, and admired him as a father figure. Ned forged a lifelong friendship with Robert Baratheon who fell in love with his younger sister Lyanna. When his sister's abduction by Prince Rhaegar resulted in Ned's father and older brother Brandon being executed by Aerys II, Ned became Lord of Winterfell and married his brother's betrothed Catelyn Tully of Riverrun who conceived their first son Robb, on their wedding night. Joining Robert in his revenge-driven rebellion against the Targaryens, Ned battled the Kingsguard before finding a dying Lyanna, whose last words were, "Promise me Ned". Her words haunted him for the rest of his life. During this time he supposedly fathered Jon Snow with a woman he told Robert was named Wylla. In the war's aftermath, Ned brought Catelyn, Robb, and Jon back to Winterfell. In time, though Catelyn resented him for rearing Jon as a member of their family, Ned had a happy marriage with her as they gained four more children: Sansa, Arya, Brandon, and Rickon. After this war, the Greyjoys started a rebellion. After the rebellion was crushed, Ned fostered the disgraced Lord Greyjoy's only surviving son, Theon, and also raised him at Winterfell. Theon resented this his whole life, and resented Ned for even trying to be a father to him.