Edmure Tully is the third child, only son, and heir of Lord Hoster Tully. He is dutiful and wishes to earn his father's respect and protect the common people of the Riverlands. However, he is also said to have a large heart and his decisions are often rash and emotional. He takes command of the Riverlands in A Game of Thrones because of his father's illness and is taken captive by Jaime Lannister. He is rescued by his nephew Robb Stark, and upon hearing of Eddard Stark's death he leads the Riverland lords in proclaiming Robb the King in the North. In A Clash of Kings, he shelters the common people in Riverrun to protect them from Tywin Lannister's forces, despite the fact that he does not have sufficient supplies to do so. Against Robb's orders, he defeats Tywin in battle and unwittingly ruins Robb's plan to permanently defeat House Lannister. Edmure becomes Lord of Riverrun after his father's death in A Storm of Swords. As amends for thwarting Robb's plan, he agrees to marry Roslin Frey and repair the alliance with the militarily critical House Frey. However, the wedding is a trap. While Edmure retires to the bridal chamber with his new wife, men sworn to Houses Bolton and Frey slaughter the Stark men, breaching ancient guest right customs. Edmure is captured and imprisoned by the Freys. Despite these events, Edmure and Roslin have become fond of one another. In A Feast for Crows, the Freys try to force his uncle Brynden out of the Riverrun by besieging the castle and threatening to hang Edmure. Every day, Edmure stands at the gallows with a noose around his neck, only to step down when his uncle does not surrender. Jaime spares him from eventual execution but threatens to kill Roslin, then pregnant, if he does not force Brynden to yield. Edmure surrenders the castle but lets Brynden escape. Edmure is en route to Casterly Rock, where he and the remaining members of House Tully are to spend their lives in service to House Lannister. Roslin is to remain at the Twins, and the pair will be reunited after the birth of their child. Edmure Tully is portrayed by Tobias Menzies in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 12][S 13]

Ser Brynden Tully, called the Blackfish, is the younger brother of Hoster Tully and the uncle of Catelyn Stark, Lysa Arryn, and Edmure Tully. He constantly quarreled with his brother, usually over Brynden's refusal to be married. During one encounter Hoster called him the black goat of House Tully. Brynden mused that since their sigil was fish, he was the "Blackfish" of the family. He accompanied Lysa to the Vale and was named Knight of the Gate by Jon Arryn.[43] In A Game of Thrones, he is upset over the Vale's neutrality in the ongoing war. He resigns from his position and joins Robb Stark and his bannermen. He is appointed head of Robb's outriders and is a crucial member of the war council. His efforts win Robb several battles throughout A Clash of Kings. He is named Warden of the Southern Marches in A Storm of Swords and remains at Riverrun while Robb goes to the Twins to attend Edmure's wedding. After Robb's death, Brynden holds Riverrun in Robb's name. He is besieged by House Lannister and House Frey in A Feast for Crows. Edmure, the Lord of Riverrun, surrenders the castle, but he helps Brynden escape. His whereabouts are unknown. Brynden Tully is portrayed by Clive Russell in the third season of the television adaptation of the novels.[S 34]