Elia Martell was the younger sister of Prince Doran Martell of Dorne and was very close to her younger brother Oberyn. She was said to have a sharp wit and frail health. She married Prince Rhaegar Targaryen, and bore him two children: a daughter Rhaenys and a son Aegon. Fifteen years before the events of the series, Rhaegar was killed in battle during Robert's rebellion and King Aerys, in his paranoia, suspected Elia's family had betrayed him. To ensure the continued support of Dorne, she and her children were confined to the royal castle in King's Landing. When the city was captured, she was raped and murdered by Gregor Clegane. Rhaenys was stabbed over fifty times, and the infant Aegon was replaced by another child and smuggled to safety. The children were supposedly murdered on Tywin Lannister's instructions to secure the throne for Robert and prove House Lannister's loyalty to the new king, but he had forgotten about Elia and did not intend for her to die. Elia's brother Oberyn, however, believed Tywin had Elia murdered to avenge the slight to his honour when Aerys had his son and heir married to Elia instead of Tywin's daughter, Cersei.

Oberyn Martell is the youngest brother of Doran Martell. He is a hot-headed, forceful, and lusty man with a quick wit and a barbed tongue. He is a formidable fighter and is called the Red Viper because it is rumored he poisons his weapons. He has traveled the world, founded a mercenary company, and briefly studied at the Citadel, which trains Maesters. He has eight illegitimate daughters, collectively known as the Sand Snakes; four of them he fathered with his paramour Ellaria Sand. He was very close to his older sister Elia, who was married to Prince Rhaegar Targaryen. When Elia was murdered by Ser Gregor Clegane, a bannerman of House Lannister, he vowed revenge. In A Storm of Swords, he goes to King's Landing to take his brother's seat on the King's council and to obtain the justice for Elia that Tyrion Lannister promised. The justice is denied, as Tyrion is arrested and accused of murdering King Joffrey Baratheon. Oberyn volunteers to champion Tyrion in the trial by combat because he knows that Gregor would be his opponent. In the battle, he wears Gregor down and forces the knight to confess to the murder of Elia and her children. After confessing, Gregor grabs him and smashes his skull, killing him. Oberyn posthumously wins vengeance, as his spear actually was poisoned with manticore venom refined to draw out the victim's suffering; Gregor dies a slow, agonizing death as a result.