Euron Greyjoy is the younger brother of Balon and captain of a ship which is entirely crewed by men whose tongues Euron ripped out. He is described as an unpredictable man who plays vicious mind games. Because of this, he is hated by all his brothers. He wears a patch over his left eye, for which he is nicknamed Crow's Eye. Before the events of the series, he was banished from the Iron Islands and was warned to never return while Balon lives. During his exile, he sailed throughout the world, raping and plundering, and became extremely wealthy. In A Feast for Crows, Euron returns to the islands the day after Balon's death though he is supposed to be months away. Because of his timely return, many characters believe he played a part in Balon's death. To decide the next king of the Iron Islands, a Kingsmoot is called, and Euron is chosen as king. He begins wildly successful raids along the Reach and weakens possible rivals by giving land and titles to their key supporters. However, he fails to move past raiding. He sends his brother Victarion to court Daenerys Targaryen in his name and bring her and her dragons to Westeros.

Victarion Greyjoy is the second youngest of Balon's brothers and is Lord Commander of the Iron Fleet. He first appears in "A Clash of Kings" and is present as his brother, King Balon Greyjoy, tells his plans to invade the north. Victarion is given the most important task in the invasion. He is ordered to take Moat Cailin and defend it from any attacks from the south. He appears next in A Feast for Crows and serves as the third-person narrator for four chapters throughout A Feast for Crows and A Dance with Dragons. He is confirmed to narrate at least one chapter in the upcoming novel The Winds of Winter.[S 30][S 31] Victarion loves battle and the open sea. He is a skilled commander and is a fierce warrior. Outside of battle, he is described as calm. He is initially respectful of his enemies and deplores his brother Euron's tendency to humiliate captives. Victarion is a devotee of the Drowned God and wears full plate armor while sailing because he does not fear drowning. Years before the events of the series, he killed his wife after he learned of her affair with Euron. He has not remarried. In A Storm of Swords, Victarion claims the throne of the Iron Islands after the death of the previous king, his brother Balon. Although he is a strong contender, he is passed over in favor of Euron. Despite his hatred for Euron, Victarion's dutiful nature forces him to follow Euron's orders. He is sent to court Daenerys Targaryen in Euron's name, but he plans to marry her himself to spite Euron for earlier betrayals. In A Dance with Dragons, he loses nearly half his fleet. He also rescues a red priest of R'hllor, who was clinging to wreckage at sea. The priest heals an infected wound on Victarion's hand, though the process leaves his arm charred. The crew wants the priest drowned, but Victarion makes offerings to both the Drowned God and R'hllor. He subsequently rebuilds his Iron Fleet with vessels captured during a sweep through the seas between the Isle of Cedars and Meereen. During this expedition he executes captured captains and their crews, though he frees chained rowers to row his own galleys. Freed slave-girls are distributed amongst his own officers though seven are burned to death by his orders as a sacrifice to the Drowned God. By the end of A Dance with Dragons Victarion seems increasingly obsessed with Daenerys Targaryen.