Ser Gregor Clegane, known as the Mountain That Rides or simply the Mountain, is the older brother of Sandor Clegane and is a retainer to Tywin Lannister.[3] He is "close to eight feet tall" and nearly 30 stone (420 lb; 190 kg) of muscle. His size and strength make him a fearsome warrior, and he has earned a reputation for cruelty and brutality. He is able to wield a two-handed sword one handed.[53] When they were children, Gregor shoved Sandor's face into a brazier, gruesomely scarring him. He is also rumored to have killed their father and their sister and his first two wives; and his servants inexplicably disappear. He has committed hundreds of rapes and murders, but he is most infamous for killing the infant Aegon VI Targaryen by bashing the babe's skull against a wall. With the baby's blood and brains still on his hands, he raped and killed Aegon's mother Elia Martell. In A Game of Thrones, Tywin Lannister sends him to raid the Riverlands in retaliation for Catelyn Stark's abduction of Tyrion. Beric Dondarrion is sent to arrest Gregor, but Gregor ambushes and kills him.[54] When war breaks out, Gregor is given command of Tywin's vanguard and left flank and leads his men through intimidation. He and his men continue raiding the Riverlands throughout A Clash of Kings. When Tyrion Lannister demands a trial by combat to prove that he did not poison King Joffrey Baratheon, the accuser Queen Mother Cersei Lannister chooses Gregor as her champion. Elia's brother Oberyn Martell sees this as a chance to claim vengeance and champions Tyrion, evading Gregor before wounding him with a poisoned spear. Gregor admits that he killed Elia and Aegon before crushing Oberyn's skull, but dies a long and agonizing death throughout A Feast for Crows. After being brought to the dungeons for Qyburn's medical experiments, Gregor is stated to be dead with his skull presented to House Martell in A Dance with Dragons as compensation for the deaths of Elia, Rhaenys, Aegon, and Oberyn. It is later heavily implied that Ser Robert Strong, newest member of the Kingsguard and Cersei's champion in her upcoming trial by combat, is in fact Gregor's reanimated (and possibly headless) corpse. In Season 1 of the television adaptation, he is portrayed by Conan Stevens and, in Season 2, by Ian Whyte. Hafþór Júlíus Björnsson is to portray Gregor in Season 4.[S 2][S 17]

Sandor Clegane—known as the Hound for his unquestioning loyalty, obedience, and readiness to kill on command, as well as for his banner and helm—is a retainer to House Lannister and the younger brother of Gregor Clegane. He is regarded as one of the most dangerous and skilled fighters in Westeros, and many believe he fears nothing. His face is distinguished by gruesome burn scars, which he received as a child when his brother pushed his head into a brazier. Consequently, he fears fire and hates his brother. When his brother is knighted and becomes even more brutal, Sandor comes to hate knights and views knighthood as hypocrisy. He vows to never become a knight and quickly corrects those who refer to him as Sir, a knight's title. He is described as a tormented man driven by anger and hate, aspiring only to kill his brother. In A Game of Thrones, he acts as bodyguard and servant to Prince Joffrey Baratheon, who calls him Dog. He becomes enamored with Joffrey's intended bride Sansa Stark, though he mocks her for her naïveté and polished manners. Despite his refusal to become a knight, he is named a knight of Joffrey's Kingsguard in A Clash of Kings and is often assigned to guard Sansa. Although he is still faithful to Joffrey, he frequently defends Sansa from Joffrey's attempts to shame and physically abuse her; of the six Kingsguard in King's Landing, he is the only one who never strikes her. During an attack on King's Landing, the widespread use of the Greek fire-like wildfire forces Sandor to abandon the fighting. Before fleeing the city, he seeks out Sansa and offers to take her along. In her panic, she refuses; but she recognizes that he had been afraid in the battle. He demands that she sing for him before he leaves, and after she does, she sees that he is crying. In A Storm of Swords, he wanders the Riverlands until he is captured by outlaws calling themselves the Brotherhood Without Banners, who have also captured Arya Stark. The Brotherhood puts him on trial for Lannister atrocities, and he chooses trial by combat. Although Beric Dondarrion fights with a flaming sword, Sandor defeats him. He is stripped of his gold and set free. He returns to reclaim his gold but, instead, kidnaps Arya to ransom her to her brother Robb Stark and hopes to earn a place in Robb's service. He takes her to the Twins, where Robb is attending a wedding. However, just as they arrive, the Freys are slaughtering the Starks. Sandor and Arya escape and head eastward. They encounter three of Gregor's men at an inn, and Sandor is seriously injured in the ensuing fight. His wounds become infected, and Arya abandons him. In A Feast for Crows, the head of a nearby monastery states that the Hound is dead, but when asked if Sandor is dead, he replies that Sandor is at rest. He claims that the Hound had been buried and his famous helm, shaped as a snarling dog head, left atop a cairn marking the grave. The helm is afterward stolen by criminals and used to blame the Hound for brutal sprees of banditry.[55] It is later obtained by the Brotherhood Without Banners.[56] In the TV adaptation, Sandor Clegane is played by Rory McCann.[S 1][S 2]