Illyrio Mopatis is a wealthy and powerful Magister in Pentos. He is morbidly obese, though in his youth he was a strong mercenary.[127] He is a close friend of Varys, and the pair engineer a plot to place House Targaryen back on the throne of the Seven Kingdoms.[128] Before the events of the series, he welcomed the exiled Viserys Targaryen and his sister Daenerys into his home as guests.[127] In A Game of Thrones, Illyrio brokers a marriage between Daenerys and Khal Drogo to buy Drogo's army of warriors.[129] His plan to create an army to invade Westeros is ruined upon the deaths of Drogo and Viserys. He aids Daenerys in A Clash of Kings by sending her three ships and a disguised Barristan Selmy. He also smuggles Tyrion Lannister out of Westeros in A Dance with Dragons and sends him to accompany Aegon on his journey to aid Daenerys.[130][128] Illyrio Mopatis is portrayed by Roger Allam in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 1]

Thoros is a red priest of R'hllor from the city of Myr. Before the events of the series, he was sent to King's Landing to convert the fire-obsessed King Aerys II Targaryen into a follower of R'hllor. He was unsuccessful and began to question his faith. When Robert Baratheon became king, Thoros became a frequent companion of Robert's. He is a formidable fighter known for using a flaming sword. In A Game of Thrones, he is sent with Beric Dondarrion to arrest Gregor Clegane. When Dondarrion is killed, Thoros inadvertently resurrects him during the funeral service. By A Storm of Swords, the two founded a band of outlaws called the Brotherhood Without Banners to stop the raiders ravaging the Riverlands. He experiences a spiritual awakening and is able to accomplish what he previously failed to achieve, such as seeing prophetic visions in flames and lighting swords on fire through blood and fire. Although the means is beyond his understanding, Thoros is continually able to resurrect Dondarrion. When Lady Stoneheart takes leadership of the Brotherhood in A Feast for Crows, he does not dispute her although he disapproves of her motives and methods. The changes she makes in the Brotherhood lower his spirits and self-confidence. Thoros of Myr is portrayed by Paul Kaye in the third season of the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 12][S 13]