Ser Ilyn Payne is the King's Justice, the royal executioner. Before the events of the series, King Aerys II Targaryen ordered his tongue cut out because he remarked that Tywin Lannister, Hand of the King at the time, was the true ruler. His muteness, added to his pockmarked face and overall grim appearance, is said to terrify many characters and make him much more effective as an executioner. He is a skilled headsman, seldom requiring a second stroke to finish his charges, and has been said to have no life apart from killing. When King Joffrey Baratheon sentences Lord Eddard Stark to death at the end of A Game of Thrones, Ilyn executes Eddard with the Lord's own greatsword, Ice. Ilyn takes the sword as his own until it is melted down to create two new swords for the House Lannister. In A Feast for Crows, Ilyn starts traveling with Jaime Lannister and spars with him nightly to help Jaime learn to fight with his left hand as the right was cut off. Jaime chooses Ilyn because he can neither talk nor write and cannot reveal how poor a swordsman Jaime has become. This also leads Jaime to tell the headsman about his past sins and about the incestuous relationship between him and his sister Cersei Lannister. Ilyn Payne is played by Wilko Johnson in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 41]

Qyburn is a former Maester who lost his chain for the unethical experiments he performed on living humans. He is also rumored to dabble in necromancy. In A Clash of Kings, he is a member of the Brave Companions mercenary company. He later leaves the company in A Feast for Crows and joins the court at King's Landing. He convinces Queen Cersei Lannister to allow him to experiment on the dying Gregor Clegane. He also uses his knowledge to torture her prisoners. After Varys disappears, he is appointed the Master of Whisperers, the royal spymaster. He creates Cersei an unbeatable champion dubbed Ser Robert Strong, who is made a knight of the Kingsguard. Anton Lesser portrays Qyburn in the HBO adaptation.[S 12][S 13]