Jaqen H'ghar is a name used by a member of the Faceless Men, assassins who follow a personification of death known as the Many-Faced god, so named because they can change appearances at will. In A Clash of Kings, he is taken from the dungeons at the Red Keep and is sent in chains with other criminals to join the Night's Watch. On the journey, he meets Arya Stark. When the group is attacked by Lannister bannermen, Arya frees him and two other prisoners, saving them from a fire. He finds Arya again at Harrenhal, where he serves the Lannisters as a mercenary. He asks her to name three people for him to kill to repay the three deaths she stole, but he refuses to help her in any other way. She chooses two of her enemies, later regretting she did not choose people crucial to the war, and chooses Jaqen himself as the third. He attempts to dissuade her by saying that he is her friend, but Arya states that he is only interested in repaying a debt where a friend would help her free the Northmen imprisoned at Harrenhal. He agrees to help her if she would "unsay" his name. After the Northmen are freed, Jaqen tells Arya that the debt has been repaid with more lives than were promised as he had to kill the jailers and tells her that he must leave. He gives Arya an iron coin, instructing her to give it to any Braavosi and say "valar morghulis" should she need more help. He then magically changes his appearance, assumes a new identity, and departs. A character matching his new appearance later appears at the Citadel, where he kills a novice to acquire an archmaester's key. Jaqen H'ghar is played by Tom Wlaschiha.[S 43]

Illyrio Mopatis is a wealthy and powerful Magister in Pentos. He is morbidly obese, though in his youth he was a strong mercenary.[127] He is a close friend of Varys, and the pair engineer a plot to place House Targaryen back on the throne of the Seven Kingdoms.[128] Before the events of the series, he welcomed the exiled Viserys Targaryen and his sister Daenerys into his home as guests.[127] In A Game of Thrones, Illyrio brokers a marriage between Daenerys and Khal Drogo to buy Drogo's army of warriors.[129] His plan to create an army to invade Westeros is ruined upon the deaths of Drogo and Viserys. He aids Daenerys in A Clash of Kings by sending her three ships and a disguised Barristan Selmy. He also smuggles Tyrion Lannister out of Westeros in A Dance with Dragons and sends him to accompany Aegon on his journey to aid Daenerys.[130][128] Illyrio Mopatis is portrayed by Roger Allam in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 1]