Jeor Mormont, called the Old Bear, is the Lord Commander of the Night's Watch. He was the Lord of Bear Island in the North, but he joined the Watch to pass the title to his son Jorah Mormont. He is considered a strong, resolute leader and commands a great deal of respect. He keeps a large raven capable of speaking simple phrases as a pet. In A Game of Thrones, he chooses Jon Snow as his personal steward, intending to groom him for command.[97] Soon after, a wight, a dead body reanimated by the Others, attempts to kill him, but Jon kills the wight.[112] As thanks, he gives Jon the Mormont ancestral sword, Longclaw, although the hilt is changed from a bear head to a wolf head to reflect Jon's Stark heritage.[98] To investigate the return of wights, the disappearance of several Rangers, and rumors of a wildling army, Jeor leads an expeditionary force beyond the Wall in A Clash of Kings. His force is assaulted by Others and an army of wights in A Storm of Swords, and he leads the survivors to a wildling keep. There, the men mutiny and kill him. As he dies, he tells Samwell Tarly to ask Jorah to join the Watch and asks Samwell to forgive Jorah in his place.[113] Jeor Mormont is portrayed by James Cosmo in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 1]

Aemon Targaryen is the older brother of Aegon V Targaryen and brother of the Night's Watch. Decades before the start of the series, he was sent to the Citadel in Oldtown according to the wishes of his grandfather and became a Maester, a member of an order of scholars and healers. He was later offered the throne of the Seven Kingdoms, but he ceded the rule to Aegon. Fearing that he would be used in a plot to usurp his brother, he joined the Watch. By A Game of Thrones, he is elderly and blind. He is well aware of what goes on around him, despite his blindness, and he provides guidance to the men of the Watch. In A Feast for Crows, Lord Commander Jon Snow fears that because Aemon has king's blood, Melisandre will burn him for her rituals. He sends him to the Citadel to live the rest of his life comfortably, but the sea voyage is difficult for Aemon. He is bedridden, and he often believes that he is young and with his brother Aegon. Upon hearing about Daenerys Targaryen and her dragons, he is convinced that she is Azor Ahai, the hero prophesied to return and save Westeros, and asks Samwell Tarly to get a Maester to her. He dies on the voyage between Braavos and Oldtown. Maester Aemon is portrayed by Peter Vaughan in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 1][S 2]