Jeyne Poole is the daughter of Vayon Poole, the steward of Winterfell, and Sansa Stark's best friend.[19] She has brown eyes and dark hair and is described as being very pretty.[20] Following the arrest of Eddard Stark in A Game of Thrones, the members and servants of his household are killed. She survives and is confined in a room with Sansa. She is later separated from Sansa and put into Petyr Baelish's care.[21] It is later revealed that she is sent to work in a brothel.[S 10] She next appears in A Dance with Dragons where the Lannisters use her as a stand-in for Sansa's younger sister Arya and send her north to marry Ramsay Bolton at Winterfell. However, Theon Greyjoy notices her eyes are not gray like Arya's, and the Boltons are aware of the ruse.[22][23] After the wedding, Ramsay locks her in a tower and horrifically abuses her both physically and sexually.[24] Jon Snow, Arya's half-brother, believes Jeyne to be the real Arya and sends Mance Rayder and his six spearwives to rescue her.[25] The group enlists Theon's help, and Theon and Jeyne barely escape while the castle prepares to defend itself against Stannis Baratheon.[26] The pair are found by a Baratheon bannerman and are brought before Stannis.[27] An excerpt from the upcoming novel The Winds of Winter reveals that Theon and Jeyne continue to tell others that she is Arya because they fear Stannis will send her back to Winterfell if he learns the truth.[S 10] In the HBO adaptation, Jeyne's only appearance so far has been in "Winter is Coming", where she was played by an unidentified extra. She is seen sitting beside Sansa at a feast and is not named in the episode, but it is stated in the DVD commentary that she is Jeyne Poole.

Jojen and Meera are the children of Stark bannerman Howland Reed, Lord of Greywater Watch and leader of the crannogmen of the Neck. Howland Reed is commonly regarded as one of Ned Stark's closest friends, despite having not left Greywater Watch since the war. They first appear in A Clash of Kings, where they are sent to renew House Reed's pledge to the Starks in place of their father and are asked to befriend and support the late Eddard Stark's children. Meera is a skilled huntress, preferring to use a small net and a trident. Jojen is thirteen when he first appears, but his seriousness and maturity make him seem older. He is described as having unusually green eyes and is always wearing green. When he nearly died of greyscale fever, he was visited by a three-eyed crow and gifted with the greensight, prophetic but abstract dreams. While in Winterfell, Jojen recognizes that Bran Stark is a skinchanger, someone able to enter the mind of an animal and control its actions, and helps him gain control over his ability. When he learns about Bran's vision of the three-eyed crow, he urges Bran to look for it north of the Wall. When Theon Greyjoy takes control of Winterfell, Jojen and Meera hide in the crypts under the castle before they flee north with Bran. Meera primarily hunts for their food. At the end of A Storm of Swords, they travel beyond the Wall and Jojen becomes very weak on the journey. In A Dance with Dragons, Jojen falls into a depression and wants to return to Greywater Watch. Meera struggles to keep the group's spirits up, but implies that Jojen has had a greendream about his fate when he reaches home and his future is bleak. Jojen and Meera Reed are portrayed by Thomas Sangster and Ellie Kendrick in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 12][S 13]