Jon Snow is Eddard Stark's bastard and serves as the third-person narrator of forty-two chapters throughout A Game of Thrones, A Clash of Kings, A Storm of Swords, and A Dance with Dragons. He shares his father's devotion to honor and tries to stay morally correct and upright, even when forced to make horrible decisions. He is the same age as Eddard's oldest son Robb Stark. After Lyanna Stark's death, Eddard brings Jon to Winterfell. Despite the objections of his wife Catelyn, Eddard insisted on raising Jon alongside the legitimate Stark children. Jon's childhood is difficult because of his illegitimacy and Catelyn's antipathy. He has a warm relationship with his half-siblings, especially Arya, Bran and Robb but he still feels that he is an outsider. He idolizes his father but is wounded by Eddard's refusal to discuss or even name his mother. Jon adopts the albino runt of the direwolf litter and names him Ghost because he has white fur and never makes a sound. He later displays the ability to assume Ghost's consciousness, making him a warg or skinchanger. Kit Harrington portrays Jon Snow in the HBO adaptation

Lyanna Stark was Eddard Stark's younger and only sister, and the betrothed of Robert Baratheon, who adored her, though it is mentioned that Lyanna was not quite so enthusiastic about the betrothal.[7] She was known for being headstrong, spirited, and beautiful; Eddard's daughter Arya Stark is often compared to Lyanna for their similar personality and appearance.[8] The novels present Lyanna as a trigger for Robert's Rebellion fifteen years before the series; however, the characters remember details differently. According to Daenerys Targaryen, Prince Rhaegar Targaryen crowned Lyanna Stark as his queen of love and beauty at a tournament, passing over his wife Elia Martell, and he "later stole [Lyanna] away from her betrothed".[9] Rhaegar had kidnapped Lyanna with the help of Arthur Dayne and Oswell Whent. Robert Baratheon and Bran Stark note within the text that Rhaegar repeatedly raped Lyanna.[10] Barristan Selmy and Daenerys believe Rhaegar was in love with Lyanna. When House Stark protested Lyanna's kidnapping, King Aerys II Targaryen horrifically executed Lyanna's father and brother Brandon.[11] A civil war named Robert's Rebellion ensued[12] that eventually ended at the Trident where Robert killed Rhaegar,[7] who according to Daenerys died for the woman he loved.[13] Shortly afterwards, Eddard went to rescue Lyanna from the Tower of Joy in Dorne. He found her dying "in a bed of blood" and her last words were "Promise me, Ned."[7][14] She was buried in the crypts of Winterfell, though the crypts are usually reserved for the Kings and Lords of Winterfell.[7] A theory exists that Jon Snow is actually the child of Lyanna and Rhaegar Targaryen, and that Ned took him as his own supposed bastard after his sister died.[S 8]