Jon Arryn was the Lord of the Eyrie, Defender of the Vale, Warden of the East, and Hand to King Robert Baratheon before the events of A Game of Thrones.[3] He took Robert and Eddard Stark as wards and became a father figure to both. When King Aerys II Targaryen commanded him to hand over his wards, Jon, knowing that doing so would be sending the boys to their deaths, instead rose up in rebellion.[43] To earn the support of House Tully in the rebellion, Jon married the much younger Lysa Tully.[44] Throughout Robert's reign, Jon was left with most of the responsibility of running the Seven Kingdoms.[45] When Stannis suspected the parentage of Queen Cersei Lannister's children, he brought his suspicions to Jon. Jon confirmed that Cersei's children were fathered not by Robert but by her brother Jaime.[46] Before he could reveal this, Lysa poisoned him to stop him from sending their son Robert Arryn away as a ward.[47] Jon Arryn is portrayed by John Standing in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 2]

Lysa Arryn is the second child and youngest daughter of Lord Hoster Tully. Before the events of the series, she fell in love with her father's ward Petyr Baelish. However, Baelish loved Lysa's sister Catelyn Tully, causing Lysa to resent her sister. When Catelyn spurned Baelish, he impregnated Lysa. When Lord Hoster learned about this, he sent Baelish home and tricked Lysa into drinking an abortifacient potion. Lord Tully later used the unborn child as proof of Lysa's fertility and wed her to the much older Jon Arryn, who desperately needed an heir and Hoster's support in rebellion. However, she suffered five miscarriages and two stillborn children before giving birth to her only child, Robert Arryn. After her second stillborn child, she became paranoid and saw enemies everywhere. She is over-protective of her son and continues to breastfeed him though he is six at the start of the series. She is described as an unstable, mercurial woman.[48] Shortly before A Game of Thrones, Baelish convinces Lysa to poison her husband and write a letter to Catelyn naming House Lannister responsible. She returns to the Eyrie and becomes Lady Regent of the Vale and quickly isolates the Vale. Fearing for her safety and the safety of her son, she maintains strict neutrality in the war, an action that enrages a great many of her bannermen. She refuses to visit her dying father, to aid her nephew Robb Stark, and to send her bannermen against the hostile tribes of the mountains (who have been armed with better weapons and emboldened by the Lannisters). In A Storm of Swords, Baelish proposes marriage. Lysa believes that he has come to love her and ecstatically accepts. She later witnesses Baelish kissing Sansa Stark and believes that Sansa is trying to woo him. In a drunken hysteria, she tries to push Sansa through a door leading off the mountain, but Baelish pushes Lysa through instead. Her murder is pinned on a singer.[47] Lysa Arryn is portrayed by Kate Dickie in the television adaptation of the novels.[S 1][S 16]