Lord Jon Connington is the former Lord of Griffin's Roost and was a close friend of Rhaegar Targaryen. Jon serves as a third-person narrator for two chapters in A Dance with Dragons. Fifteen years before the events of the series, King Aerys II made Jon his Hand of the King, the top adviser, after the previous Hand failed to contain a rebellion led by Robert Baratheon. However, Jon later failed to capture or slay Robert at Stoney Sept before a rebel army led by Ned Stark and Hoster Tully arrived to rescue him; Aerys blamed Connington for the disaster and he was stripped of his lands and titles and exiled. He reportedly served with the Golden Company, a mercenary group under Myles Toyne, but was reportedly discharged after stealing from the payroll. He was said to have drunk himself to death a year later. In A Dance with Dragons, it is revealed that his disgrace and death was a fabrication created by Varys. Because he is thought dead, Jon is able to raise and protect Aegon VI, who was also thought to be dead but was in fact safely smuggled out of King's Landing. He takes the name Griff and pretends that Aegon is his son. The pair plan to conquer Westeros and crown Aegon the King of the Seven Kingdoms. They begin travelling to Volantis to join their strength with Daenerys Targaryen. On the journey, Jon becomes infected with greyscale, a disease that slowly turns flesh stiff and dead and is eventually fatal. However, he keeps this a secret and hopes that he can crown Aegon before dying. When it becomes apparent that Daenerys has no intention of immediately conquering Westeros, the Golden Company abandons their idea of joining her and swear allegiance to Aegon. Jon and Aegon decide to attack Westeros while it is embroiled in civil war. The group lands in the Stormlands and have captured several castles, including Griffin's Roost. Aegon plans to leads the attack on Storm's End, the next target.

Ser Jorah Mormont is the former Lord of Bear Island in the North, which he inherited after his father Jeor Mormont joined the Night's Watch to pass on the title. After winning a tourney joust, Jorah was allowed to take Lady Lynesse Hightower as his second wife. He went into debt trying to support her lavish lifestyle, and he was sentenced to death after selling poachers to slavers.[29] Rather than join the Night's Watch or die, he and his wife fled to Lys, where she left him to become a concubine of a rich merchant.[30] Jorah became a mercenary and proved himself to be a capable warrior despite his age. He later becomes well-known among the Dothraki people. Though he is not descended from the Andals, the Dothraki dub him Jorah the Andal in reference to his Westerosi origin. Jorah wants nothing more than to return to Bear Island. In A Game of Thrones, he enters into the service of Viserys Targaryen and reports the movements of the exiled prince and his sister Daenerys to Varys, King Robert Baratheon's spymaster. He hopes that he will win a royal pardon and be allowed to return home.[29] He eventually chooses to serve Daenerys over Viserys and becomes one of her most trusted companions.[31][32] Jorah falls in love with Daenerys and stops assassination attempts caused by his reports.[33][34][30] He eventually ends all communication with Varys.[35] After she is widowed, he remains with her and becomes the first knight of her Queensguard.[36]