Ser Kevan Lannister is Tywin Lannister's younger brother and most trusted captain, known for his reliability and loyalty. He serves as the third-person narrator for the epilogue of A Dance with Dragons. At an early age, he realized his brother was superior. He became comfortable with carrying out Tywin's wishes and resigned himself to perpetually living in his brother's shadow. Though he is intelligent, it is said that Kevan never had a thought Tywin did not have first. In A Storm of Swords, he is appointed Master of Laws to his great-nephew King Joffrey Baratheon, and after Tywin's death, he is offered the position Hand of the King in A Feast for Crows. However, he does not trust the leadership of his niece Cersei and will only take the appointment if she returns to Casterly Rock and gives him the regency. She refuses to do so, and he refuses the position. He accuses Cersei of being as unfit a mother as she is a ruler. Enraged, she withdraws the offer. He is quickly alienated from his immediate family; he is angry at his son's sudden piety, comes to believe his nephew Tyrion killed Tywin, suspects that Cersei is having an incestuous relationship with her brother Jaime, and questions the true parentage of Cersei's children. He returns to the west and Cersei gives several positions, to which Kevan would have been better suited, to lesser members of House Lannister in retaliation. After Cersei's imprisonment, the council appoints him Lord Regent to King Tommen Baratheon. Kevan accepts the position in A Dance with Dragons and tries to solve the problems Cersei created, mostly by repairing relations between House Tyrell and House Lannister. Because his efforts to stabilize the Lannister-Tyrell regime threaten Aegon Targaryen's plans to take the throne, Varys shoots Kevan in the chest with a crossbow, which Varys hopes will suggest Tyrion is responsible, further destabilizing Cersei. Though it may seem easy to guess that it probably wasn't Tyrion, the ruse only had to fool Cersei. Varys expresses regret that this is necessary; he views the regime Kevan could have saved as evil, but knows Kevan to be a good man. The dying Kevan is then surrounded by dagger-wielding children, whom Varys orders to finish him off. Kevan Lannister is portrayed by Ian Gelder in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 19]

Lancel Lannister is the oldest son of Kevan Lannister and serves as squire to King Robert Baratheon at King's Landing in A Game of Thrones. He idolizes his cousin Jaime to the point that he helps Jaime's sister Queen Cersei kill Robert so he could also be a Kingslayer. In A Clash of Kings, Cersei knights him for his part in Robert's death. When Jaime goes to war, Cersei takes Lancel as a lover because he resembles her brother. Tyrion eventually discovers the affair and blackmails Lancel into spying for him. During an attack on King's Landing, Lancel guards Cersei's son King Joffrey Baratheon and takes a serious wound in the fighting. During recovery in A Storm of Swords, he experiences a spiritual awakening and spends much of his time atoning for his sins. He marries the recently widowed Amerei Frey, nicknamed Gatehouse Ami for her promiscuity, as part of a pact between Houses Lannister and Frey. Lancel becomes Lord of the Darry shortly after in A Feast for Crows. Rumors of his wife's promiscuity circulate, but he is apathetic as he does not care about what his wife does. When the Faith Militant, the military order of the Faith, is reinstated, he renounces his wife and lands and is seen as a member of the Warrior Sons order in A Dance with Dragons. Lancel Lannister is portrayed by Eugene Simon in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 1][S 2]