Drogo is a powerful khal, or warlord, of the Dothraki people, a tribal nation of expert riders and raiders in the steppes beyond the Free Cities. He is an accomplished warrior and has never been defeated in battle. In A Game of Thrones, Viserys Targaryen and Illyrio Mopatis conspire to marry Daenerys Targaryen to Khal Drogo to get his support and warriors for the invasion of Westeros. Drogo approves of her and takes her as his wife. Despite his fearsome attitude toward his warriors, he proves to be a kind, sensitive and loving husband. After a failed attempt on the pregnant Daenerys's life, he vows to invade Westeros to reclaim the Seven Kingdoms for the Targaryens and his son. However, Viserys's impertinence ultimately causes Drogo to kill him. He raids several villages and attacks other Dothraki hordes to gather supplies for the invasion and is wounded by an enemy khal. The wound festers and Drogo falls from his horse, causing most of his warriors to abandon him. Daenerys unwittingly sacrifices their unborn son to revive him, and he becomes an unresponsive shell of his former self. She smothers him out of pity, and the flames of his funeral pyre hatch her dragon eggs. He is the namesake of her favorite dragon, the powerful, black Drogon. Khal Drogo is played by Jason Momoa in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 2] In Valar Morghulis, Daenerys is briefly reunited with Drogo and Rhaego in the House of the Undying, which does not happen in the books.

Syrio Forel is the former First Sword of Braavos and a master of the Braavosi fighting style known as Water Dancing.[123] He is described as an old man, but he still possesses remarkable speed and skill.[124] After Eddard Stark discovers Arya Stark's secret sword Needle, he hires Syrio to teach her, believing the Braavosi style best suits Needle.[125][126] Syrio uses unorthodox means, such as having her perform gymnastics and chase cats through the city, to train her to move and think like a warrior.[126] He teaches her to be perceptive, graceful, and fearless, often telling Arya "fear cuts deeper than swords." When Cersei Lannister orders all the Starks to be captured or killed, Syrio buys Arya time to escape by fighting off five guardsmen and a knight of the Kingsguard with only a wooden practice sword. Though outnumbered, he refuses to run. He successfully defeats or kills the guardsmen, but the knight destroys the wooden sword and leaves the Braavosi weaponless.[124] As of A Dance with Dragons, his ultimate fate is unknown. When asked if Syrio is dead, author George R. R. Martin replies "draw your own conclusions" and points out that Syrio is defenseless.[S 42] Syrio Forel is portrayed by Miltos Yerolemou.