Lancel Lannister is the oldest son of Kevan Lannister and serves as squire to King Robert Baratheon at King's Landing in A Game of Thrones. He idolizes his cousin Jaime to the point that he helps Jaime's sister Queen Cersei kill Robert so he could also be a Kingslayer. In A Clash of Kings, Cersei knights him for his part in Robert's death. When Jaime goes to war, Cersei takes Lancel as a lover because he resembles her brother. Tyrion eventually discovers the affair and blackmails Lancel into spying for him. During an attack on King's Landing, Lancel guards Cersei's son King Joffrey Baratheon and takes a serious wound in the fighting. During recovery in A Storm of Swords, he experiences a spiritual awakening and spends much of his time atoning for his sins. He marries the recently widowed Amerei Frey, nicknamed Gatehouse Ami for her promiscuity, as part of a pact between Houses Lannister and Frey. Lancel becomes Lord of the Darry shortly after in A Feast for Crows. Rumors of his wife's promiscuity circulate, but he is apathetic as he does not care about what his wife does. When the Faith Militant, the military order of the Faith, is reinstated, he renounces his wife and lands and is seen as a member of the Warrior Sons order in A Dance with Dragons. Lancel Lannister is portrayed by Eugene Simon in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 1][S 2]

Bronn is a skilled sellsword of low birth. He is described as having a sardonic sense of humor and a pragmatic, amoral philosophy. He is introduced in A Game of Thrones as one of the men who responds to Catelyn Stark's call to capture Tyrion Lannister, but he only does so in the hopes of a reward.[50] He helps Catelyn take Tyrion to the Eyrie, and to Catelyn's annoyance, he quickly befriends Tyrion.[51][48] When Tyrion needs a man to champion him in a trial by combat, Bronn steps forward as he believes he will earn more for his services from Tyrion than from Catelyn.[52] He wins the duel and enters into Tyrion's service.[48] He accompanies Tyrion to King's Landing, and in A Clash of Kings he becomes the captain of Tyrion's guards. He is tasked with hiring mercenaries to deal with the hostile common-folk and leads the efforts to extinguish fires started by rioters. When Stannis Baratheon attacks the city by sailing up the Blackwater River, Bronn is in charge of raising the massive chain boom across the river to cut off the fleet's escape. The operation is successful, he is knighted for his contributions, and he begins calling himself Ser Bronn of the Blackwater. In A Storm of Swords, Tyrion is accused of murdering King Joffrey Baratheon and asks Bronn to champion him in a trial by combat against the monstrous Gregor Clegane. However, Bronn refuses and instead takes Cersei's offer to marry Lollys of the wealthy House Stokeworth. In A Feast for Crows, Lollys gives birth to the son she conceived while she was raped during a riot. Bronn names the boy Tyrion in honor of his former employer, leading Cersei to fear he still supports Tyrion. Lollys's older sister Falyse and Falyse's husband Balman are ordered to kill Bronn in an "accident." However, Balman foolishly challenges him to a duel. Bronn defeats and kills Balman with underhand tactics, after extracting a confession that Cersei put him up to it, and expels Falyse from the castle. To hide the plot, Cersei has Falyse killed. After Falyse's death, Lollys is named Lady Stokeworth, and Balman's death leaves Bronn unopposed as Lord Protector of Stokeworth, a claim derived from his wife's new title. Bronn is played by Jerome Flynn in the television adaptation of the novels.[S 1][S 2]