Ser Loras Tyrell, nicknamed the Knight of Flowers, is the third and favorite son of Mace Tyrell. He is a young but highly skilled tourney knight and jouster. He is beloved by the crowds, and many young girls are infatuated with him. When Renly Baratheon claims himself king of the Seven Kingdoms in A Clash of Kings, Loras supports him and is made head of Renly's personal guard. After Renly's assassination, Loras is enraged with grief and kills three of the guards present at Renly's death. He erroneously blames Brienne of Tarth and Catelyn Stark for Renly's death and would have killed them too if they did not flee. In A Storm of Swords, he questions Brienne and finally decides that she is not the killer. When his sister Margaery is married to Joffrey Baratheon, he joins the Kingsguard. He volunteers to join the siege of Dragonstone in A Feast for Crows so Cersei Lannister will send military assistance to defend his native Highgarden from the Greyjoys. His decisive actions cause an unnecessary bloodbath but successfully capture Dragonstone. However, Loras is horrifically burned when he is doused with boiling oil during the attack, and the maesters send word to King's Landing that he is dying. Cersei tactlessly gloats about this news to Margaery, which causes the Lannister-Tyrell alliance to crumble. While Loras's death was believed to be imminent, to the surprise of the maesters he managed to cling to life day after day and has not succumbed to his wounds by the end of A Dance with Dragons. Loras Tyrell is portrayed by Finn Jones in the television adaptation of the novels. The character is a composite of the three Tyrell sons, e.g. Loras wears Renly's armor during the Battle of Blackwater Bay, while his family plots to marry him to Sansa Stark. The adaptation openly depicts Loras and Renly Baratheon as lovers, an interaction obliquely addressed within the novels. Martin has pointed out that due to the fact that neither Renly nor (as of A Dance With Dragons) Loras are viewpoint characters, a sexual relationship could only be confirmed if the characters were caught in flagrante delicto which - due to the strong repercussions against such relationships - would have affected their plotlines substantially.[S 24][S 25]

Margaery Tyrell /ˈmɑrdʒəri tɪˈrɛl/ is the youngest child and only daughter of Mace Tyrell. She is an intelligent and shrewd young woman, and despite being only sixteen, she is manipulative and adept at political intrigue. In A Clash of Kings, she is married to rebel Renly Baratheon as a pledge of loyalty from House Tyrell. When Renly is killed, the Tyrells ally with House Lannister and she is married to King Joffrey Baratheon in A Storm of Swords. After Joffrey is poisoned at their wedding feast, she marries King Tommen Baratheon in A Feast for Crows. As Queen, Margaery tries to win the love of the people and is largely successful. She visits local markets, orders numerous dresses from local seamstresses, and makes public displays of charity. She tries to shape Tommen into a successful ruler by suggesting he ride in the sight of his subjects and sit in on his council's meetings. She also manipulates Tommen to resist the control of his mother, Queen Regent Cersei Lannister. Cersei tries to remove Margaery and the Tyrells from power by taking advantage of Margaery's claim that she is still a virgin. Cersei accuses Margaery of adultery and high treason and gathers an array of conspirators and false evidence to frame her. Margaery is arrested and imprisoned to await trial. She confronts Cersei and reveals that she knows Cersei is behind the false accusations. She also wants to remove Cersei from a position of influence, possibly by arranging for her death. Because the evidence against her is weak, she is released to the custody of a Tyrell retainer in A Dance with Dragons until the day of her trial. She chooses a trial by the judges of the Faith over a trial by combat. Margaery Tyrell is portrayed by Natalie Dormer in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 36]