Lyanna Stark was Eddard Stark's younger and only sister, and the betrothed of Robert Baratheon, who adored her, though it is mentioned that Lyanna was not quite so enthusiastic about the betrothal.[7] She was known for being headstrong, spirited, and beautiful; Eddard's daughter Arya Stark is often compared to Lyanna for their similar personality and appearance.[8] The novels present Lyanna as a trigger for Robert's Rebellion fifteen years before the series; however, the characters remember details differently. According to Daenerys Targaryen, Prince Rhaegar Targaryen crowned Lyanna Stark as his queen of love and beauty at a tournament, passing over his wife Elia Martell, and he "later stole [Lyanna] away from her betrothed".[9] Rhaegar had kidnapped Lyanna with the help of Arthur Dayne and Oswell Whent. Robert Baratheon and Bran Stark note within the text that Rhaegar repeatedly raped Lyanna.[10] Barristan Selmy and Daenerys believe Rhaegar was in love with Lyanna. When House Stark protested Lyanna's kidnapping, King Aerys II Targaryen horrifically executed Lyanna's father and brother Brandon.[11] A civil war named Robert's Rebellion ensued[12] that eventually ended at the Trident where Robert killed Rhaegar,[7] who according to Daenerys died for the woman he loved.[13] Shortly afterwards, Eddard went to rescue Lyanna from the Tower of Joy in Dorne. He found her dying "in a bed of blood" and her last words were "Promise me, Ned."[7][14] She was buried in the crypts of Winterfell, though the crypts are usually reserved for the Kings and Lords of Winterfell.[7] A theory exists that Jon Snow is actually the child of Lyanna and Rhaegar Targaryen, and that Ned took him as his own supposed bastard after his sister died.[S 8]

Lord Roose Bolton is Lord of the Dreadfort in the North and a retainer of Lord Eddard Stark. He is nicknamed the Leech Lord because he receives regular leechings in an attempt to improve his health. He is mild-mannered and courteous, but he is cold and capable of great cruelty. Some characters state that he is incapable of emotion. He marries his third wife during A Clash of Kings (mainly because her weight in silver was the dowry) and states that he is fond of her. When she is pregnant, he comments that his illegitimate son Ramsay Snow will probably kill the child after his own death; he prefers this as Roose refuses to have a child rule the Dreadfort when he is dead. He appears to have been fond of his first son Domeric, who was accomplished. He believes that Domeric was killed by Ramsay. When Robb Stark summons his banners in A Game of Thrones, Bolton answers the call. His intelligence and calculating caution earn him the command of the northern infantry. In A Storm of Swords, he decides that the Stark cause is lost. He makes decisions that kill a large portion of Robb's army and helps Tywin Lannister plan Robb's death. Roose's men help the Freys massacre the Stark army at Edmure Tully's wedding, and Roose himself kills Robb. For this service, he is named Warden of the North and House Bolton is made the principal house in the North. Roose Bolton is portrayed by Michael McElhatton in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 9]