Lysa Arryn is the second child and youngest daughter of Lord Hoster Tully. Before the events of the series, she fell in love with her father's ward Petyr Baelish. However, Baelish loved Lysa's sister Catelyn Tully, causing Lysa to resent her sister. When Catelyn spurned Baelish, he impregnated Lysa. When Lord Hoster learned about this, he sent Baelish home and tricked Lysa into drinking an abortifacient potion. Lord Tully later used the unborn child as proof of Lysa's fertility and wed her to the much older Jon Arryn, who desperately needed an heir and Hoster's support in rebellion. However, she suffered five miscarriages and two stillborn children before giving birth to her only child, Robert Arryn. After her second stillborn child, she became paranoid and saw enemies everywhere. She is over-protective of her son and continues to breastfeed him though he is six at the start of the series. She is described as an unstable, mercurial woman.[48] Shortly before A Game of Thrones, Baelish convinces Lysa to poison her husband and write a letter to Catelyn naming House Lannister responsible. She returns to the Eyrie and becomes Lady Regent of the Vale and quickly isolates the Vale. Fearing for her safety and the safety of her son, she maintains strict neutrality in the war, an action that enrages a great many of her bannermen. She refuses to visit her dying father, to aid her nephew Robb Stark, and to send her bannermen against the hostile tribes of the mountains (who have been armed with better weapons and emboldened by the Lannisters). In A Storm of Swords, Baelish proposes marriage. Lysa believes that he has come to love her and ecstatically accepts. She later witnesses Baelish kissing Sansa Stark and believes that Sansa is trying to woo him. In a drunken hysteria, she tries to push Sansa through a door leading off the mountain, but Baelish pushes Lysa through instead. Her murder is pinned on a singer.[47] Lysa Arryn is portrayed by Kate Dickie in the television adaptation of the novels.[S 1][S 16]

Robert Arryn, sometimes called Sweetrobin, is the only child of Jon Arryn and Lysa Tully.[3] He is a sickly, whiny child who suffers from frequent seizure-like episodes called a shaking illness. He is depicted as being intellectually and physically stunted. Although he is six, his mother continues to breastfeed him.[48] At the start of the series, he is Lord of the Eyrie and Defender of the Vale and his mother rules as regent in his name.[3] After Lysa's marriage to Petyr Baelish and her subsequent death in a Storm of Swords, Baelish assumes the title Lord Protector of the Vale and claims the rule of the Vale and guardianship of Robert. Robert becomes increasingly emotional and unstable throughout A Feast for Crows and his shaking episodes become more frequent. In the absence of his mother, he becomes highly attached to his cousin Sansa Stark in her disguise of Alayne Stone.[49] In the television adaptation of the novels, the character is renamed Robin Arryn to prevent confusion with Robert Baratheon. He is portrayed by Lino Facioli.[S 1][S 16]