Lord Mace Tyrell is the Lord of Highgarden, Defender of the Marches, High Marshal of the Reach, and Warden of the South. He has three sons—Willas, Garlan, and Loras—and one daughter, Margaery. He is described as a prematurely old and tedious man who lacks in political savvy. His sole military accomplishment is the siege of Storm's End (which was technically a failure; Stannis Baratheon held out against Tyrell long enough for Eddard Stark to relieve the castle), and he serves only as the figurehead of a powerful house filled with more intelligent members. He dreams of his daughter becoming queen. In A Clash of Kings, he fully supports the marriage between Margaery and rebel Renly Baratheon, who plans to take the throne of the Seven Kingdoms. When Renly dies, Mace accepts an offer to marry Margaery to Joffrey Baratheon, the current king. After dealing rebel Stannis Baratheon a major defeat, Mace is named Master of Ships, the naval commander, in A Storm of Swords. He comes to covet the position of Hand of the King, the King's top adviser. After the current Hand's death, he is sent to recapture Storm's End instead. He returns to King's Landing in A Dance with Dragons when Margaery is accused of high treason and adultery. Kevan Lannister, Regent of the Seven Kingdoms, names Mace his hand, mostly to repair the relationship between their houses. Kevan comments that Mace is ill-suited to the position. Mace is played by Roger Ashton-Griffiths on Game of Thrones.

Willas Tyrell is the eldest son of Mace Tyrell, and the heir to Highgarden. During his first tourney, he was competing against Prince Oberyn Martell of Dorne and was crippled when his horse fell on top of his leg. Despite this he feels no animosity toward Oberyn and the two long remained in correspondence. Ever since his accident, Willas has occupied himself with scholarly studies and breeding animals. He also was the one who gave his brother Garlan the nickname “The Gallant”. In A Storm of Swords his grandmother, Olenna Redwyne, plots to have Sansa Stark married to Willas. However this plan is foiled when Petyr Baelish learns of it and Sansa is married to Tyrion Lannister. He is often noted as studious, educated, kind, and a much more capable leader than his father.