Aemon Targaryen is the older brother of Aegon V Targaryen and brother of the Night's Watch. Decades before the start of the series, he was sent to the Citadel in Oldtown according to the wishes of his grandfather and became a Maester, a member of an order of scholars and healers. He was later offered the throne of the Seven Kingdoms, but he ceded the rule to Aegon. Fearing that he would be used in a plot to usurp his brother, he joined the Watch. By A Game of Thrones, he is elderly and blind. He is well aware of what goes on around him, despite his blindness, and he provides guidance to the men of the Watch. In A Feast for Crows, Lord Commander Jon Snow fears that because Aemon has king's blood, Melisandre will burn him for her rituals. He sends him to the Citadel to live the rest of his life comfortably, but the sea voyage is difficult for Aemon. He is bedridden, and he often believes that he is young and with his brother Aegon. Upon hearing about Daenerys Targaryen and her dragons, he is convinced that she is Azor Ahai, the hero prophesied to return and save Westeros, and asks Samwell Tarly to get a Maester to her. He dies on the voyage between Braavos and Oldtown. Maester Aemon is portrayed by Peter Vaughan in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 1][S 2]

Yoren is a sworn brother of the Night’s Watch. He is a recruiter, or “wandering crow” and he travels across the Seven Kingdoms collecting recruits and prisoners to take back to Castle Black for training and to "take the black" (join the Night's Watch). In A Game of Thrones Yoren travels with Tyrion Lannister on the journey from the Wall to King's Landing, and is present when he is arrested by Catelyn Stark. He then races to King's Landing to inform Eddard Stark what has happened. He is in the crowd during Lord Eddard's execution, where he finds Arya Stark and shields her from seeing her father’s death. In A Clash of Kings he disguises Arya as a boy recruit so that he can smuggle her out of the city; he plans to drop her off at Winterfell on his way to the Wall. He is killed when his convoy is attacked by Lannister soldiers. He is portrayed by Francis Magee in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 2][S 38]