Mance Rayder was a wildling child who was raised by the Night's Watch and later joined their ranks. However, he broke his vows and abandoned his post. Since then, he gained influence among the wildlings and has become known as "King-beyond-the-Wall."[99][115] In A Storm of Swords, he unites all the wildlings under his command and leads them to attack the Wall from the south. Although the Watch is hopelessly outnumbered, Jon Snow is able to lead the Watch and defeat Mance's advance force.[116] When the main army arrives at the Wall, Jon is sent to kill Mance, under the guise of making peace. Mance claims that he has found a magical horn that can topple the Wall (a claim later proven false) and will use it if the wildlings cannot pass. However, he aims to put the Wall between the wildlings and the Others, and he would prefer not to destroy it. He offers the horn in exchange for permission to settle the northernmost lands of Westeros. The meeting is interrupted by the unexpected arrival of Stannis Baratheon and his army, who defeats the disorganized wildling army.[117] Stannis orders Mance to be burned alive in A Dance with Dragons. In an act of mercy, Jon has the Watch kill him with arrows.[118] However, Jon later discovers that the priestess Melisandre used magic to disguise Rayder as a wildling named Rattleshirt and vice versa. Under Jon's orders, Mance takes his six spearwives to Winterfell to rescue Arya Stark, not knowing the girl is actually Jeyne Poole.[25][23] Mance and his spearwives disguise themselves as a singer and his washerwomen. They secretly kill off several of Roose Bolton's men, creating tension in Winterfell, and enlist the help of Theon Greyjoy to smuggle Jeyne out of the castle. To ensure Jeyne's safety, Mance and his women stay behind.[26] According to a letter Ramsay Bolton writes to Jon, the wildlings have been captured; Mance is caged outside in the snow and is forced to use the skins of his spearwives as a cloak. However, the letter makes a few false claims and the truth of Mance's fate is unconfirmed.[66][S 10] Mance Rayder is played by Irish actor Ciarán Hinds in the third season of the HBO adaptation of the novels. Dominic West was offered the part, but turned it down.[S 39]

Ygritte is a wildling woman. She is fierce and headstrong. In wildling culture she is known as a spearwife, a woman who is also a warrior. Because her hair is red, the wildlings believe her to be "kissed by fire" and consider her lucky. Wildlings practice marriage by capture, so she is considered Jon's wife because he takes her captive upon their first meeting in A Clash of Kings. Jon initially refuses her advances throughout A Storm of Swords, but the two soon begin a sexual relationship. Jon is torn between his love for her and his duty to the Night's Watch and the realm, but ultimately, he chooses to honour his vows and abandons the wildlings to report back on their movements; Ygritte nearly kills him when he flees. Ygritte joins the wildling attack on Castle Black and is killed in the battle's closing moments, taking an arrow in the heart. Jon finds her among the dead and the dying, and Ygritte dies in his arms. Her death continues to haunt Jon. Ygritte was fond of saying "You know nothing, Jon Snow." She is portrayed by Rose Leslie in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 40]