Margaery Tyrell /ˈmɑrdʒəri tɪˈrɛl/ is the youngest child and only daughter of Mace Tyrell. She is an intelligent and shrewd young woman, and despite being only sixteen, she is manipulative and adept at political intrigue. In A Clash of Kings, she is married to rebel Renly Baratheon as a pledge of loyalty from House Tyrell. When Renly is killed, the Tyrells ally with House Lannister and she is married to King Joffrey Baratheon in A Storm of Swords. After Joffrey is poisoned at their wedding feast, she marries King Tommen Baratheon in A Feast for Crows. As Queen, Margaery tries to win the love of the people and is largely successful. She visits local markets, orders numerous dresses from local seamstresses, and makes public displays of charity. She tries to shape Tommen into a successful ruler by suggesting he ride in the sight of his subjects and sit in on his council's meetings. She also manipulates Tommen to resist the control of his mother, Queen Regent Cersei Lannister. Cersei tries to remove Margaery and the Tyrells from power by taking advantage of Margaery's claim that she is still a virgin. Cersei accuses Margaery of adultery and high treason and gathers an array of conspirators and false evidence to frame her. Margaery is arrested and imprisoned to await trial. She confronts Cersei and reveals that she knows Cersei is behind the false accusations. She also wants to remove Cersei from a position of influence, possibly by arranging for her death. Because the evidence against her is weak, she is released to the custody of a Tyrell retainer in A Dance with Dragons until the day of her trial. She chooses a trial by the judges of the Faith over a trial by combat. Margaery Tyrell is portrayed by Natalie Dormer in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 36]

Olenna Redwyne, also known as the Queen of Thorns, is the mother of Mace Tyrell. She is described as a wizened and cunning old woman with a wicked wit and a sharp tongue, and she is known for openly stating her opinion. In A Storm of Swords, she plans to have Sansa taken to Highgarden to marry her grandson Willas. This plan is foiled when the Lannisters force Sansa to marry Tyrion Lannister. She and Petyr Baelish later poison Joffrey Baratheon at his wedding. Olenna Redwyne is portrayed by Dame Diana Rigg in the third season of the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 37]