Melisandre of Asshai is a priestess of R'hllor in service to Stannis Baratheon. She is introduced in A Clash of Kings and serves as the third-person narrator for one chapter of A Dance with Dragons. She is described as a beautiful woman with red eyes, and like all the clergy of her faith, she is always dressed in red; vague recollections of her own past imply that Melisandre was once a slave called Melony, and that she was sold to the temple of R'hllor when she was a child. Because of her devotion to R'hllor, she possesses magical abilities, has prophetic visions, and does not need to eat or sleep. A great heat emanates from her body. She is often friendly, though many characters feel intimidated or threatened by her presence. Melisandre takes a militant stance against the other religions of Westeros, believing the other gods to be demons who need to be destroyed. By A Clash of Kings, Melisandre has converted Stannis's wife Queen Selyse into a follower of R'hllor and has convinced Stannis that he is the Azor Ahai, the messianic figure prophesied to return and end the perpetual war between R'hllor and his opponent, the Great Other. She becomes his most trusted adviser and counsels him on how to prepare for the battle against the enemy Great Other. She is also able to win over many of Stannis's men, but alienates the rest because of her aggressive counsel, her attitude toward their religion, and her strange faith and abilities. Many, most notably Stannis's trusted adviser Davos Seaworth, believe she is leading their king astray. Attempts on her life are made at least twice, once by Dragonstone's aged Maester Cressen after Stannis's coronation, and once by Davos following the Battle of the Blackwater; her powers allow her to survive one and foresee the other. Despite the fact that Davos planned to kill her, she trusts him as he is steadfast in his loyalty to Stannis. She takes credit for the deaths of Stannis's enemies and competitors for the throne, killing Renly Baratheon and Ser Cortnay Penrose, castellan at Storm's End, with shadow assassins conjured from her womb (although Renly's death is portrayed without her part, it is implied when she births the shadow which kills Ser Cortnay). In A Storm of Swords, she goes north with Stannis and remains at the wall throughout A Dance With Dragons, claiming she has important work to do there. Melisandre is played by Carice van Houten in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 1][S 21]

Ser Davos Seaworth, called the Onion Knight and sometimes Shorthand, is the common-born head of the newly founded House Seaworth and was formerly known as the most notorious and most elusive smuggler in the Seven Kingdoms. He is introduced in A Clash of Kings and is the third-person narrator for a total of thirteen chapters throughout A Clash of Kings, A Storm of Swords, and A Dance with Dragons. In his smuggling days, he was said to handle a ship at night better than anyone. Before the events of the series, he earned his knighthood by smuggling fish and onions to the besieged Stannis Baratheon and his army during Robert Baratheon's rebellion. Before knighting him, Stannis removed the last joints from four fingers on Davos's left hand as punishment for years of smuggling; believing these joints bought his wife and seven sons a better future, Davos keeps them in a pouch around his neck for luck until they are lost in the Battle of the Blackwater.[65][67][68] In A Clash of Kings, he loyally supports Stannis's claim to the throne and his honesty and willingness to voice his unaltered opinion make him Stannis's most trusted adviser, though Stannis often dislikes what he hears.[65] However, Davos is a follower of the Faith of the Seven and cannot bring himself to accept or trust the priestess Melisandre and her god R'hllor. He does not object to her because Stannis is also a follower of R'hllor.[69] He fights in the Battle of the Blackwater, an attack on King's Landing that ends in the slaughter of Stannis's troops; Davos's four eldest sons are killed and Davos himself seemingly perishes.[70][71] In A Storm of Swords, he is revealed to have barely survived.[68] He blames Melisandre for the deaths of his sons and plans to kill her, but she foresees the attempt and has him jailed.[71][72] Stannis pardons Davos and raises him to Lord of the Rainwood and names him Hand of the King, a position Davos reluctantly accepts.[73] Feeling that a Hand cannot be illiterate, he learns to read and write and inadvertently reads the Night's Watch's letter calling for aid.[74] Davos convinces Stannis to help the Watch defend against the wildling army.[73][75] While Stannis sails to the Wall, Davos goes to White Harbor in the North to negotiate an alliance with Lord Manderly, who takes him captive.[76][77] In A Feast for Crows, Manderly is ordered to execute Davos in exchange for Manderly's son.[78] Soon after, Davos's head and hands are said to be displayed on the city walls.[79] A Dance with Dragons reveals that Manderly executed a similar-looking criminal instead. Davos is secretly and comfortably held in a cell and is released upon the return of Manderly's son. Manderly will pledge White Harbor's support, and promises most of the North will follow suit, if Davos uses his smuggling skills to recover Manderly's liege lord Rickon Stark, who was previously thought dead. Upon learning the boy's whereabouts, implied to be the northern island of Skagos, Davos considers returning to his cell better than sailing through dangerous waters to where cannibals live.[6] Davos Seaworth is played by Liam Cunningham in the television adaptation of the novels.[S 22][S 1] Because Cunningham is left-handed, the writers decided to shorten the fingers on the character's right hand instead of his left.[S 23]