Lord Petyr Baelish, called Littlefinger, is the Master of Coin, the Treasurer of the Seven Kingdoms. He is an ambitious man with skills in finance and Court intrigue. While initially portrayed as a minor but somewhat powerful figure, by A Feast for Crows it is revealed that many significant plot points have hinged on Baelish's schemes and intrigues. He aggravates the alliance between House Stark and House Lannister by lying to Catelyn about the ownership of the dagger used in an attempt to kill her son, betrays Eddard and helps arrest him, brokers an alliance between House Lannister and House Tyrell, reveals Olenna Redwyne's plan to marry Sansa Stark to Willas Tyrell and plots with the Tyrells to poison King Joffrey Baratheon at his wedding feast. He was also instrumental in the death of Jon Arryn, for which the Lannisters were blamed. When Lysa tries to kill Sansa in a jealous rage, Littlefinger murders her and appoints himself Lord Protector of the Vale. Petyr Baelish is portrayed by Aidan Gillen in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 1][S 2]

Varys, called the Spider, is a eunuch who serves as Master of Whisperers, the spymaster for the king of the Seven Kingdoms.[119] He is feared by nobles and common people alike. He is described as bald and fat, and he usually affects a fawning, effeminate manner. However, he is also a master of disguise and is able to change everything about his personality and physical appearance. He knows all of the secret passages in the royal castle, and his spies, which he refers to as his little birds, are found everywhere. He claims that as a child, he was an actor in a travelling show. He says that he was castrated by a wizard who needed his genitals for a spell. Because of this, he hates magic and those who practice it. After his castration, he became known as the King of Thieves in Pentos and befriended Illyrio Mopatis. Varys's skill in spying and gathering information earned him the position of Master of Whisperers on King Aerys II Targaryen's council. From then on, he claims to work for the good of the realm. Throughout the series, he works to create a period of weakness in the Seven Kingdoms so that it is easy for the exiled House Targaryen to invade and claim the throne. However, his plans become more complicated as other characters do not do as he asks or expects. He disappears in A Feast for Crows after helping Tyrion Lannister escape and does not reappear until the end of A Dance with Dragons. He kills Kevan Lannister and Grand Maester Pycelle as their competent leadership threatens the success of Aegon Targaryen's invasion of Westeros. Varys is portrayed by Conleth Hill in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 1][S 2]