Qyburn is a former Maester who lost his chain for the unethical experiments he performed on living humans. He is also rumored to dabble in necromancy. In A Clash of Kings, he is a member of the Brave Companions mercenary company. He later leaves the company in A Feast for Crows and joins the court at King's Landing. He convinces Queen Cersei Lannister to allow him to experiment on the dying Gregor Clegane. He also uses his knowledge to torture her prisoners. After Varys disappears, he is appointed the Master of Whisperers, the royal spymaster. He creates Cersei an unbeatable champion dubbed Ser Robert Strong, who is made a knight of the Kingsguard. Anton Lesser portrays Qyburn in the HBO adaptation.[S 12][S 13]

Balon Swann is a knight and the second son of the lord of House Swann. He is a member of the court in King's Landing and is noted to be a capable warrior. He participates in the Tourney of the Hand in A Game of Thrones but is defeated by Gregor Clegane in the jousting and comes second in the archery tournament. In A Clash of Kings he is promoted to the Kingsguard after the death of Preston Greenfield during the riot in King's Landing. Tyrion Lannister sees him as a capable knight and thinks that Balon will make a good Kingsguard. During the battle of the Blackwater, he proves to be worthy of his place in the Kingsguard and fights alongside Tyrion Lannister. He survives the battle; Jaime Lannister thinks Balon is well suited to the white cloak and regards him as a good and valiant knight, and perhaps the only honorable member among them. In A Feast for Crows, he is sent to Dorne with Gregor Clegane's skull as part of an arrangement to pacify Dorne, and presents it to Prince Doran Martell in A Dance with Dragons. Doran later reveals to the Sand Snakes that Balon is part of a plot organised by Cersei to kill Trystane Martell and blame it on Tyrion; according to a Martell informant in King's Landing, the party will be attacked on route by outlaws crying "Halfman" and Ser Balon will falsely claim to catch a glimpse of Tyrion. Doran also claims that while Balon does not approve of his orders, he is compelled to obey them as a knight of the Kingsguard, regardless of his personal feelings. To gain time Doran has Myrcella Baratheon compel Balon to hunt for Ser Gerold Dayne, who wounded Myrcella. Balon is guided by the Sand Snake Obara Sand to High Hermitage, the castle of House Dayne where Ser Gerold had fled.