Lord Renly Baratheon is the younger brother of Robert Baratheon and Stannis Baratheon. He is described as handsome and charismatic, winning friends easily, but many characters view him as frivolous and believe he sees everything, including the war for the kingship, as a game. By the beginning of A Game of Thrones, he is made Lord of Storm's End, the seat of House Baratheon. This greatly upsets Stannis as Storm's End is supposed to go to the older brother; the castle is also much larger and richer and therefore gives Renly more power. Eventually, Renly is called to King's Landing to serve on Robert's council as master of laws, his lawmaker. As Robert is dying, Renly approaches Eddard Stark suggesting they seize control of the Iron Throne before Queen Cersei Lannister could take it for herself. When Eddard refuses as Stannis is rightful heir, Renly leaves the city. After Robert dies, Renly declares himself King of the Seven Kingdoms in A Clash of Kings and wins the support of the Baratheon bannermen and the support of other houses, despite Stannis's better claim. He also seals an alliance with House Tyrell by marrying Margaery Tyrell. In the television series, he changes his coat of arms to a golden crowned stag on Tyrell green to reflect this. He leads his army slowly through southern Westeros, biding his time. He lets his enemies House Lannister and House Stark wear each other out and hosts tournaments while waiting. He is forced to change tactics when Stannis marches against him. While preparing for battle, Renly is killed by a mysterious shadow. Renly Baratheon is portrayed by Gethin Anthony in the television adaptation of the novels.[S 1] The adaptation openly depicts Renly and Ser Loras Tyrell as lovers, an interaction obliquely addressed in the novels.[S 24][S 25] Martin has pointed out that due to the fact that neither Renly or (as of A Dance With Dragons) Loras are viewpoint characters, a sexual relationship could only be confirmed if the characters were caught in flagrante delicto, which - due to the strong repercussions against such relationships - would have affected their plotlines substantially.

Brienne Tarth, called Brienne of Tarth, is the only surviving child and daughter of Lord Selwyn of Evenfall and heiress to Tarth, an island in the Stormlands. She serves as the third-person narrator for eight chapters of A Feast for Crows. She is a highly trained and skilled warrior made dangerous by the fact that men underestimate her. From an early age, she knew she would rather be a knight than a wife. She is considered ugly because she is abnormally large in height and build, androgynous, and stronger than most men. She is often called a freak and is mockingly nicknamed Brienne the Beauty. She is described as honest, loyal, stubborn, and awkward but confident in battle. She holds a naïve and idealized notion of knighthood and the world despite the fact that Westeros does not live up to her high-minded views. She wishes to prove her valor in a worthy cause to win respect and acceptance. She becomes infatuated with Renly Baratheon after he shows her kindness and courtesy, and she wins a place in his Rainbow Guard after winning a tournament melee in A Clash of Kings. Renly states in private that he thinks she is foolish but gave her the position anyway because she wanted to die for him, as opposed to other followers who wanted advantage or position. She is present at Renly's death and is falsely accused of his murder. She flees with Catelyn Stark and enters her service. Later in A Storm of Swords, Catelyn decides to release Jaime Lannister in exchange for her daughters Sansa and Arya; Brienne is sent to protect Jaime on the journey and to escort the Stark girls back. However, Brienne and Jaime are captured by the Brave Companions, a mercenary company in service to Roose Bolton. While in captivity, the two develop a grudging respect for one another, and Jaime eventually risks his life to save her from death in a bear pit. The pair eventually arrive in King's Landing. After Catelyn's death, Jaime entrusts Brienne with a sword forged for him from Eddard Stark's own sword. He names it Oathkeeper as it will allow her to keep her promise to Catelyn and sends her to find and protect Sansa. Brienne wanders the Riverlands in search of Sansa throughout A Feast for Crows. She is eventually captured by the outlaws known as the Brotherhood Without Banners, now led by the resurrected Catelyn. Catelyn claims that she does not believe Brienne is searching for Sansa and orders her to kill Jaime or face execution. Brienne refuses to make a choice and is sentenced to hang. She shouts a single word as her noose tightens in her last appearance of the novel. In A Dance with Dragons, she appears alive, but she is wounded and appears much older. She asks Jaime to help her rescue Sansa from Sandor Clegane, but he must come alone or Sandor will kill Sansa. However, as of A Dance with Dragons, Sansa is hiding in the Vale and Sandor has been reported dead. Brienne of Tarth is played by Gwendoline Christie in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 26]