Robert Baratheon is King of the Seven Kingdoms and at the beginning of A Game of Thrones, he has reigned for fifteen years. He is described as a fat, bearded man who is fond of hunting, whoring, and drinking. However, he was a formidable warrior in his youth. He was the ward of Jon Arryn and was raised at the Eyrie alongside Eddard Stark, another of Jon's wards, whom he considers a brother; in fact, Robert is not very fond of his own brothers Renly and Stannis, a feeling that is mutual. Robert and Eddard grew closer than brothers and became devoted to Jon. Fifteen years before the series, Robert was betrothed to Ned's sister Lyanna, whom he adored from afar. When Lyanna and Rhaegar Targaryen disappeared, Robert was outraged. King Aerys II Targaryen ordered Jon to execute Robert and Eddard. Instead, Jon Arryn raised the Vale in rebellion, beginning the conflict known as Robert's Rebellion or the War of the Usurper. Robert eventually killed Rhaegar on the river Trident and seized the throne after marching into King's Landing, using his bloodline as pretext (his paternal grandmother being a Targaryen). In the last days of the war, Lyanna died due to circumstances that remain unconfirmed. Robert is forever haunted by her memory and subsequently bears a deep hatred against House Targaryen, denouncing Rhaegar's murdered children Aegon and Rhaenys as "dragonspawn" and dispatching his assassins to track down Aerys's remaining two children, Daenerys and Viserys. After winning the crown, he married Cersei Lannister to ensure House Lannister's loyalty to his rule. Robert and Cersei share three children, all actually fathered by Cersei's brother Jaime. Although Robert believes he is the father, he prefers to ignore the children rather than raise them, leaving the responsibility of running the Seven Kingdoms to his Hand, Lord Arryn. Robert squanders the vast treasury left by Aerys on tourneys and feasts, leaving the crown heavily in debt. In spite of his squandering, he is not an unpopular king, and his lifespan brought a renewed sense of peace to the kingdom following the near-extinction of its (until then) only ruling dynasty. Believing the Seven Kingdoms ready to crumble, Lord Balon Greyjoy tried to take advantage as he raised his own rebellion against the crown, which was suppressed nine years before the events of A Game of Thrones. Robert's careless ways create a political and fiscal bubble that bursts at the moment of his death, setting the stage for the War of the Five Kings, in which his heir Joffrey and brothers Stannis and Renly all contend for the Iron Throne. In A Game of Thrones, he goes hunting severely drunk and is gutted by a boar. He dies a few days later. Robert Baratheon was portrayed by Mark Addy in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 1][S 2]

Princess Myrcella Baratheon is second oldest child and only daughter of Queen Cersei Lannister. Like her brothers, she is also the daughter of Cersei's brother Jaime Lannister, but she is unaware of this and believes she is the daughter of King Robert Baratheon. She is described as delicate, beautiful and courteous and is said to have all her mother's beauty but none of her cruel nature. Myrcella is known for displaying tremendous courage, a strong will and great intelligence, despite being only eight at the beginning of the series. To ensure that House Martell will support Joffrey, who is now king and fighting a civil war, Myrcella is betrothed to marry Prince Trystane Martell when they come of age and is sent to Dorne in A Clash of Kings. According to other characters, they get along well and have become friends. After Joffrey's death in A Storm of Swords, Princess Arianne Martell schemes to make Myrcella queen of Westeros, as under the laws of Dorne the eldest child, whether son or daughter, succeeds to the throne. The plan goes awry, however, and in the ensuing chaos, Ser Gerold Dayne, one of Arianne's co-conspirators, attempts to kill Myrcella. She survives, but she loses an ear and is hideously scarred. Myrcella Baratheon is portrayed by Aimee Richardson in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 1]