Samwell Tarly, Sam for short, is the elder son of Lord Randyll Tarly of Horn Hill. Ten chapters throughout A Storm of Swords and A Feast for Crows are told from his point of view. Although he is intelligent and thoughtful, he is timid, fat, and unsure of himself. His father considers him a grave disappointment and forces him to join the Night's Watch to allow Sam's younger brother to inherit Horn Hill. He arrives at Castle Black in A Game of Thrones and is initially bullied by the other recruits and is taunted by the trainer for his cowardice. He is defended and befriended by Jon Snow, who ensures that the bullying stops. After taking his vows, Sam is made Maester Aemon's steward and is tasked with taking care of the ravens. He travels beyond the Wall in place of Aemon. Jon gives him a horn and some dragonglass he finds buried with a man of the watch's cloak. In A Storm of Swords, he slays an Other, discovering their vulnerability to obsidian, and is nicknamed Sam the Slayer. When the Watch has to choose a new commander, Sam manipulates the candidates into selecting Jon Snow. At Jon's command in A Feast for Crows, Sam travels to the Citadel with Maester Aemon and Gilly, a wildling girl. He is ordered to become a maester, who serve as healers and advisers. During the journey, he begins a short-lived relationship with Gilly, but he is ashamed because it goes against his vows as a brother of the Watch. He plans to take Gilly to Horn Hill where she and her baby will be safe. At Aemon's command, he tries to get a Maester sent to Daenerys Targaryen, and an Archmaester goes in search of her after hearing his tale. Sam remains at the Citadel to become a Maester, after which he will return to the Wall. Samwell Tarly is portrayed by John Bradley in the HBO adaptation of the novels, while Gilly is portrayed by Hannah Murray.[S 1][S 2]

Janos Slynt was a former Commander of the City Watch in King's Landing and eventually a brother in the Night's Watch. He has three children, two sons and a daughter, and is described as being 'frog-faced' and 'built like a keg'. He first appears in A Game of Thrones, initially to request Lord Eddard Stark's assistance in recruiting more men to police the crowds coming to King's Landing for the Tourney of the Hand. Later, when Eddard intends to depose Joffrey due to his illegitimate status and attempts to wrest control of the crown from Queen Cersei, Littlefinger assures him the loyalty of the City Watch by promising to pay off Slynt and the Watch's officers. However, Ned learns too late that Slynt and Littlefinger's real allegiance lies with the Lannisters; the City Watchmen present in the throne room assist the Lannister soldiers present in massacring the Stark men-at-arms and arresting Eddard. For his assistance, Janos Slynt is raised to the small council, made a lord and given Harrenhal for his seat; this decision outrages many amongst the nobility, including Tywin Lannister, given that Slynt was a lowborn commoner and Harrenhal an ancient and significantly important castle.