Sandor Clegane—known as the Hound for his unquestioning loyalty, obedience, and readiness to kill on command, as well as for his banner and helm—is a retainer to House Lannister and the younger brother of Gregor Clegane. He is regarded as one of the most dangerous and skilled fighters in Westeros, and many believe he fears nothing. His face is distinguished by gruesome burn scars, which he received as a child when his brother pushed his head into a brazier. Consequently, he fears fire and hates his brother. When his brother is knighted and becomes even more brutal, Sandor comes to hate knights and views knighthood as hypocrisy. He vows to never become a knight and quickly corrects those who refer to him as Sir, a knight's title. He is described as a tormented man driven by anger and hate, aspiring only to kill his brother. In A Game of Thrones, he acts as bodyguard and servant to Prince Joffrey Baratheon, who calls him Dog. He becomes enamored with Joffrey's intended bride Sansa Stark, though he mocks her for her naïveté and polished manners. Despite his refusal to become a knight, he is named a knight of Joffrey's Kingsguard in A Clash of Kings and is often assigned to guard Sansa. Although he is still faithful to Joffrey, he frequently defends Sansa from Joffrey's attempts to shame and physically abuse her; of the six Kingsguard in King's Landing, he is the only one who never strikes her. During an attack on King's Landing, the widespread use of the Greek fire-like wildfire forces Sandor to abandon the fighting. Before fleeing the city, he seeks out Sansa and offers to take her along. In her panic, she refuses; but she recognizes that he had been afraid in the battle. He demands that she sing for him before he leaves, and after she does, she sees that he is crying. In A Storm of Swords, he wanders the Riverlands until he is captured by outlaws calling themselves the Brotherhood Without Banners, who have also captured Arya Stark. The Brotherhood puts him on trial for Lannister atrocities, and he chooses trial by combat. Although Beric Dondarrion fights with a flaming sword, Sandor defeats him. He is stripped of his gold and set free. He returns to reclaim his gold but, instead, kidnaps Arya to ransom her to her brother Robb Stark and hopes to earn a place in Robb's service. He takes her to the Twins, where Robb is attending a wedding. However, just as they arrive, the Freys are slaughtering the Starks. Sandor and Arya escape and head eastward. They encounter three of Gregor's men at an inn, and Sandor is seriously injured in the ensuing fight. His wounds become infected, and Arya abandons him. In A Feast for Crows, the head of a nearby monastery states that the Hound is dead, but when asked if Sandor is dead, he replies that Sandor is at rest. He claims that the Hound had been buried and his famous helm, shaped as a snarling dog head, left atop a cairn marking the grave. The helm is afterward stolen by criminals and used to blame the Hound for brutal sprees of banditry.[55] It is later obtained by the Brotherhood Without Banners.[56] In the TV adaptation, Sandor Clegane is played by Rory McCann.[S 1][S 2]

Podrick Payne, Pod for short, is a distant cousin of Ser Ilyn Payne and becomes the squire to Tyrion Lannister toward the end of A Game of Thrones.[53] He is a very shy and nervous boy and is always stuttering, but he is a loyal and capable squire. In A Clash of Kings, he rides by Tyrion's side at the Battle of the Blackwater, during which he rescues Tyrion from an assassination attempt made by Ser Mandon Moore, a knight of the Kingsguard.[57] He continues his duties through A Storm of Swords until Tyrion vanishes in A Feast for Crows.[58][59] He then secretly follows Brienne of Tarth, knowing that she was looking for Tyrion's wife Sansa Stark. When he is discovered, Podrick admits that he is upset Tyrion abandoned him and hopes that Sansa will lead him to Tyrion.[60] He becomes Brienne's squire and serves her as faithfully as he did Tyrion.[61][62] He and Brienne are captured by outlaws known as the Brotherhood Without Banners, and the leader Lady Stoneheart orders Podrick to be hanged for serving Tyrion as squire. In his last appearance, he quietly accepts his fate and is being hanged alongside Brienne, who later appears alive.[56][63] His ultimate fate is unknown. Podrick Payne is played by Daniel Portman in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 20][64]