Syrio Forel is the former First Sword of Braavos and a master of the Braavosi fighting style known as Water Dancing.[123] He is described as an old man, but he still possesses remarkable speed and skill.[124] After Eddard Stark discovers Arya Stark's secret sword Needle, he hires Syrio to teach her, believing the Braavosi style best suits Needle.[125][126] Syrio uses unorthodox means, such as having her perform gymnastics and chase cats through the city, to train her to move and think like a warrior.[126] He teaches her to be perceptive, graceful, and fearless, often telling Arya "fear cuts deeper than swords." When Cersei Lannister orders all the Starks to be captured or killed, Syrio buys Arya time to escape by fighting off five guardsmen and a knight of the Kingsguard with only a wooden practice sword. Though outnumbered, he refuses to run. He successfully defeats or kills the guardsmen, but the knight destroys the wooden sword and leaves the Braavosi weaponless.[124] As of A Dance with Dragons, his ultimate fate is unknown. When asked if Syrio is dead, author George R. R. Martin replies "draw your own conclusions" and points out that Syrio is defenseless.[S 42] Syrio Forel is portrayed by Miltos Yerolemou.

Jaqen H'ghar is a name used by a member of the Faceless Men, assassins who follow a personification of death known as the Many-Faced god, so named because they can change appearances at will. In A Clash of Kings, he is taken from the dungeons at the Red Keep and is sent in chains with other criminals to join the Night's Watch. On the journey, he meets Arya Stark. When the group is attacked by Lannister bannermen, Arya frees him and two other prisoners, saving them from a fire. He finds Arya again at Harrenhal, where he serves the Lannisters as a mercenary. He asks her to name three people for him to kill to repay the three deaths she stole, but he refuses to help her in any other way. She chooses two of her enemies, later regretting she did not choose people crucial to the war, and chooses Jaqen himself as the third. He attempts to dissuade her by saying that he is her friend, but Arya states that he is only interested in repaying a debt where a friend would help her free the Northmen imprisoned at Harrenhal. He agrees to help her if she would "unsay" his name. After the Northmen are freed, Jaqen tells Arya that the debt has been repaid with more lives than were promised as he had to kill the jailers and tells her that he must leave. He gives Arya an iron coin, instructing her to give it to any Braavosi and say "valar morghulis" should she need more help. He then magically changes his appearance, assumes a new identity, and departs. A character matching his new appearance later appears at the Citadel, where he kills a novice to acquire an archmaester's key. Jaqen H'ghar is played by Tom Wlaschiha.[S 43]