Theon Greyjoy is the only living son, youngest child, and heir apparent of Balon Greyjoy. He is the third-person narrator for thirteen chapters throughout A Clash of Kings and A Dance with Dragons, and he is confirmed to narrate at least one chapter in the upcoming novel The Winds of Winter.[S 10] He is arrogant, cocky, and proud, and he is known to be always smiling. Ten years before the events of the series, at the end of the failed Greyjoy rebellion, he was taken hostage by Eddard Stark to be executed if Balon displeased the king. Theon was raised at Winterfell with the Stark children and became a close friend of and almost a brother to Robb Stark. He wants to be a Stark, but he realizes that the Starks will never accept him. However, he receives only mockery and scorn from his own family. In A Game of Thrones, he fights at Robb's side when Robb rebels. He is sent to the Iron Islands in A Clash of Kings to seek a Stark alliance with the Greyjoys. However, the Greyjoys criticize Theon's northern ways and reject Robb's proposal. Theon then joins Balon's side in the war. He ignores his orders to raid the shores and captures Winterfell to prove his worth to his father. However, Bran Stark and Rickon Stark disappear, and he fails to find them. To cement his hold on Winterfell, Theon kills two common-born boys and tells Westeros that the Stark boys are dead. Because of this, the northmen dub him Theon Turncloak. His requests for aid are ignored by his family, and he is captured by Ramsay Snow shortly after. Throughout A Storm of Swords and A Feast for Crows, many characters receive pieces of his skin, as proof he is alive when he was previously thought to be dead. By A Dance of Dragons he has been tortured, flayed, and mutilated; it is strongly implied that he has been castrated. Traumatized, Theon is forced to assume the identity of Reek, Ramsay's serving man known for his stench. Though he fears Ramsay, he tries to reaffirm his Reek identity to please Ramsay and attempts to forget that he is Theon Greyjoy. When reminded of his true identity, he breaks down and insists Theon died. When Ramsay is betrothed to Arya Stark, Theon recognizes her as Jeyne Poole and is sympathetic to her plight, though he is unable to help her. In the days before the wedding he spends most of his time wandering around Winterfell, regretting his decision to betray Robb and hoping for a quick death. After the wedding, he begins praying to the Old Gods and is happy when he hears his name whispered, believing that the Old Gods know his name. He later helps Jeyne escape, and the pair are brought before Stannis Baratheon. In an excerpt of The Winds of Winter, he is Stannis's captive. Stannis refuses to ransom Theon to his sister Asha Greyjoy and insists that Theon must die to avenge Bran and Rickon lest he be abandoned by his northmen allies. Asha urges Stannis to kill Theon as Eddard Stark would have: by personally beheading him before a Weirwood tree and giving him to the Old Gods, instead of having him burned alive.

Theon Greyjoy is portrayed by Alfie Allen in the television adaptation of the novels.[S 1][S 2]