Tywin Lannister is Lord of Casterly Rock, Shield of Lannisport, and Warden of the West. He is a calculating, ruthless, and controlling man. He married his cousin Joanna, and their marriage was a happy one. She was his beloved companion and most trusted counselor. When she died giving birth to their dwarf son Tyrion, he was devastated and it is said that "the best part of Tywin died with her." He never remarried. Tywin loves his children Cersei and Jaime, but he despises Tyrion for being deformed and for causing Joanna's death. In his youth, he single-handedly restored the honor and fortune of the Lannisters and dedicated himself to maintaining his family's prestige. He was appointed the Hand of the King to Aerys II Targaryen at a young age and held the position for twenty years. He proved himself a capable leader and his tenure was marked by peace and prosperity. Others joked that Tywin, not Aerys, ruled the kingdom. Aerys's increasing paranoia and jealousy drove the two into bitter disagreements. When Aerys named Jaime to the Kingsguard and robbed Tywin of his heir, he resigned from his position. During Robert Baratheon's rebellion fifteen years before the events of the series, Tywin remained neutral until Robert won a decisive victory. He then captured King's Landing and ordered the murder of Rhaegar Targaryen's young children. In A Game of Thrones, he views the kidnapping of Tyrion as a slight against his family and sends Gregor Clegane to raid the Riverlands. He then spends much of his time fighting House Stark in the following war. After King Robert Baratheon dies, he is named Hand of the King to his grandson Joffrey Baratheon. He sends Tyrion to serve in his stead. Tywin continues the war through A Clash of Kings. Upon hearing that rebel Stannis Baratheon is attacking King's Landing, he arrives in time to drive Stannis away. He assumes his position of Hand in A Storm of Swords. He arranges for Joffrey to marry Margaery Tyrell to secure an alliance between the Lannisters and Tyrells; and he orders Tyrion to marry Sansa Stark to claim Winterfell. He also plots the treacherous massacre at Edmure Tully's wedding, which kills rebel Robb Stark and most of his army. This effectively ends the ongoing war. When Joffrey is poisoned and Tyrion is blamed, Tywin presides at his son's trial. Tyrion is determined guilty in a trial by combat and is sentenced to death. However, he escapes and makes his way to Tywin's bedchamber. Tyrion finds him in the privy and kills him with a crossbow bolt. Tywin Lannister is portrayed by Charles Dance in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 1][S 17]

Cersei Lannister of House Lannister is the older twin sister of Jaime and is the only daughter of Tywin Lannister. She serves as the third-person narrator for twelve chapters throughout A Feast for Crows and A Dance with Dragons. She is physically beautiful and intelligent, but she is also greedy, cruel, manipulative, and amoral; she is also short tempered and quick to hold grudges, as well as often rushing into situations without pausing to consider the consequences of her actions. She shares her father's belief that to be feared is better than to be loved; however, unlike her father, Cersei has never learnt to temper ruthlessness with pragmatism and good judgement. She often feels that she should have been born male and given a sword, and she resents the restrictions put on her because she is female. Several characters state that she wants power but does not wield it well.