Varys, called the Spider, is a eunuch who serves as Master of Whisperers, the spymaster for the king of the Seven Kingdoms.[119] He is feared by nobles and common people alike. He is described as bald and fat, and he usually affects a fawning, effeminate manner. However, he is also a master of disguise and is able to change everything about his personality and physical appearance. He knows all of the secret passages in the royal castle, and his spies, which he refers to as his little birds, are found everywhere. He claims that as a child, he was an actor in a travelling show. He says that he was castrated by a wizard who needed his genitals for a spell. Because of this, he hates magic and those who practice it. After his castration, he became known as the King of Thieves in Pentos and befriended Illyrio Mopatis. Varys's skill in spying and gathering information earned him the position of Master of Whisperers on King Aerys II Targaryen's council. From then on, he claims to work for the good of the realm. Throughout the series, he works to create a period of weakness in the Seven Kingdoms so that it is easy for the exiled House Targaryen to invade and claim the throne. However, his plans become more complicated as other characters do not do as he asks or expects. He disappears in A Feast for Crows after helping Tyrion Lannister escape and does not reappear until the end of A Dance with Dragons. He kills Kevan Lannister and Grand Maester Pycelle as their competent leadership threatens the success of Aegon Targaryen's invasion of Westeros. Varys is portrayed by Conleth Hill in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 1][S 2]

Pycelle is an elderly Maester, and for decades he has served many kings as Grand Maester, the personal healer and scholar of the king. Although he is intelligent and highly educated, his effectiveness as an officer of the court has been dulled by his age. He often falls asleep during meetings. In A Clash of Kings, it is revealed that he constantly betrays the king to aid House Lannister: he convinced King Aerys II Targaryen to open the gates for Tywin Lannister during a rebellion, he allowed Jon Arryn to die to keep the true parentage of Cersei Lannister's children secret, and would have killed King Robert Baratheon upon Cersei's command. Upon learning this, Tyrion Lannister has Pycelle removed from office and imprisoned. In A Storm of Swords, he is restored to his position. His imprisonment shakes his self-confidence and he is perceived as a broken man. He objects to Queen Regent Cersei's decisions throughout A Feast for Crows, and she considers replacing him. When Cersei is arrested, Pycelle seizes control of the king's council and offers Kevan Lannister the regency. Together, they begin restoring order to the Seven Kingdoms. In A Dance with Dragons, he begins to fear for his safety and requests guards. Despite this, he is killed in his chambers by Varys, who believes that Pycelle's and Kevan's competent leadership threatens Aegon VI Targaryen's chance at the throne.[120] Pycelle is portrayed by Julian Glover in the television adaptation of the novels.[S 1]