Victarion Greyjoy is the second youngest of Balon's brothers and is Lord Commander of the Iron Fleet. He first appears in "A Clash of Kings" and is present as his brother, King Balon Greyjoy, tells his plans to invade the north. Victarion is given the most important task in the invasion. He is ordered to take Moat Cailin and defend it from any attacks from the south. He appears next in A Feast for Crows and serves as the third-person narrator for four chapters throughout A Feast for Crows and A Dance with Dragons. He is confirmed to narrate at least one chapter in the upcoming novel The Winds of Winter.[S 30][S 31] Victarion loves battle and the open sea. He is a skilled commander and is a fierce warrior. Outside of battle, he is described as calm. He is initially respectful of his enemies and deplores his brother Euron's tendency to humiliate captives. Victarion is a devotee of the Drowned God and wears full plate armor while sailing because he does not fear drowning. Years before the events of the series, he killed his wife after he learned of her affair with Euron. He has not remarried. In A Storm of Swords, Victarion claims the throne of the Iron Islands after the death of the previous king, his brother Balon. Although he is a strong contender, he is passed over in favor of Euron. Despite his hatred for Euron, Victarion's dutiful nature forces him to follow Euron's orders. He is sent to court Daenerys Targaryen in Euron's name, but he plans to marry her himself to spite Euron for earlier betrayals. In A Dance with Dragons, he loses nearly half his fleet. He also rescues a red priest of R'hllor, who was clinging to wreckage at sea. The priest heals an infected wound on Victarion's hand, though the process leaves his arm charred. The crew wants the priest drowned, but Victarion makes offerings to both the Drowned God and R'hllor. He subsequently rebuilds his Iron Fleet with vessels captured during a sweep through the seas between the Isle of Cedars and Meereen. During this expedition he executes captured captains and their crews, though he frees chained rowers to row his own galleys. Freed slave-girls are distributed amongst his own officers though seven are burned to death by his orders as a sacrifice to the Drowned God. By the end of A Dance with Dragons Victarion seems increasingly obsessed with Daenerys Targaryen.

Aeron Greyjoy is the youngest of Balon's surviving brothers.[85] He is introduced in A Clash of Kings and serves as a third-person narrator for two chapters of A Feast for Crows. He is also confirmed to narrate at least one chapter in the upcoming novel The Winds of Winter.[S 32] In his youth, he was a ribald drunk and was scorned by Balon. After nearly drowning, he dedicated himself to the Drowned God, the god of his people, and became a high priest.[80] He became a hard, humorless ascetic and lives as a hermit on the beach. He weaves seaweed into his uncut hair, earning him the nickname Damphair. Fellow holy men do his bidding without question, and the people of the Iron Islands greatly respect him.[80] After Balon's death in A Storm of Swords, Euron Greyjoy, Balon and Aeron's brother, returns to claim the throne. However, Euron is not a devout follower of the Drowned God and tradition dictates that the Iron Islands cannot have a godless king. Aeron calls a Kingsmoot in A Feast for Crows to choose Balon's successor. He hoped to crown his brother Victarion, who shares Balon's traditional and conservative ways.[80] However, Euron is crowned. Aeron announces that he will rouse the people against Euron and disappears the next day.