Viserys Targaryen, styling himself Viserys III, is the second born son of Aerys II Targaryen.[3] Thirteen years before the events of the series, he and his sister Daenerys fled Westeros to escape death at the hands of rebel Robert Baratheon.[28] He is a cruel, ambitious, and blunt man who is prone to violent mood swings, maddened by poverty and exile. He spent the past thirteen years wandering through the Free Cities, running from supposed assassins and plotting to return to reclaim his father's throne. He is often mocked as the Beggar King because he must rely on the generosity of those sympathetic to his cause. In A Game of Thrones, he marries his sister to Khal Drogo, hoping that the marriage will buy Drogo's Dothraki warriors.[28] He often states that he is the rightful ruler of the Seven Kingdoms and demands respect, but disrespects Dothraki customs and verbally abuses his sister. He is blind to the fact that virtually everyone, including Daenerys and his sworn knight Jorah Mormont, scorn his petty and vindictive nature. Eventually, Viserys realises that Daenerys is genuinely loved by the Dothraki people, which further infuriates him. When Viserys threatens to kill Daenerys and her unborn child, threatening her with a sword in Vaes Dothrak, where it is forbidden to spill blood, Drogo kills him by "giving him" the golden crown that is part of their agreement, with Viserys held down as molten gold is poured over him. Despite her brother's abuse, knowing that he did keep her safe, Daenerys tries to remember her brother as a good person before his madness and names her cream-colored dragon Viserion after him. Viserys Targaryen is portrayed by Harry Lloyd in the television adaptation of the novels.[S 1][S 2]

Rhaegar Targaryen was the oldest son of Aerys II, the Prince of Dragonstone, and the heir apparent to the Iron Throne of the Seven Kingdoms. He is described as an intelligent, brooding man who was initially very bookish. It was in one of those mysterious books that he found something that seemed to force him to reconsider his path. Thereafter he trained to become a skilled fighter but remained heavily introverted. He married Elia Martell and had two children, a girl named Rhaenys and an infant son named Aegon Targaryen. After winning a tourney, he crowned Lyanna Stark Queen of Love and Beauty, passing over Elia. He and Lyanna later disappeared, which House Stark and Lyanna's betrothed Robert Baratheon saw as Lyanna's abduction. There is a lot of controversy over what happened, as though many reports indicate it was an abduction, it is uncertain whether Lyanna Stark voluntarily ran away with him. Seeing Rhaegar through the eyes of Jon Connington and Barristan Selmy provides a different light to the hatred Robert Baratheon (and to a certain degree Eddard Stark) hold for him. Robert started a rebellion to rescue her. This eventually led to a battle on the river Trident, ending in the death of Rhaegar who was killed by a blow from Robert's hammer. Elia and Rhaenys were killed at King's Landing and along with the supposed death of his son Aegon. Though Robert vilifies Rhaegar throughout A Game of Thrones, many characters express admiration for him and it is stated that most of Westeros remembers him with love. It is also regularly implied that he would have been a great king. He was the namesake of Daenerys's late son, Rhaego, and of her green-colored dragon Rhaegal.