Yoren is a sworn brother of the Night’s Watch. He is a recruiter, or “wandering crow” and he travels across the Seven Kingdoms collecting recruits and prisoners to take back to Castle Black for training and to "take the black" (join the Night's Watch). In A Game of Thrones Yoren travels with Tyrion Lannister on the journey from the Wall to King's Landing, and is present when he is arrested by Catelyn Stark. He then races to King's Landing to inform Eddard Stark what has happened. He is in the crowd during Lord Eddard's execution, where he finds Arya Stark and shields her from seeing her father’s death. In A Clash of Kings he disguises Arya as a boy recruit so that he can smuggle her out of the city; he plans to drop her off at Winterfell on his way to the Wall. He is killed when his convoy is attacked by Lannister soldiers. He is portrayed by Francis Magee in the HBO adaptation of the novels.[S 2][S 38]

Samwell Tarly, Sam for short, is the elder son of Lord Randyll Tarly of Horn Hill. Ten chapters throughout A Storm of Swords and A Feast for Crows are told from his point of view. Although he is intelligent and thoughtful, he is timid, fat, and unsure of himself. His father considers him a grave disappointment and forces him to join the Night's Watch to allow Sam's younger brother to inherit Horn Hill. He arrives at Castle Black in A Game of Thrones and is initially bullied by the other recruits and is taunted by the trainer for his cowardice. He is defended and befriended by Jon Snow, who ensures that the bullying stops. After taking his vows, Sam is made Maester Aemon's steward and is tasked with taking care of the ravens. He travels beyond the Wall in place of Aemon. Jon gives him a horn and some dragonglass he finds buried with a man of the watch's cloak. In A Storm of Swords, he slays an Other, discovering their vulnerability to obsidian, and is nicknamed Sam the Slayer. When the Watch has to choose a new commander, Sam manipulates the candidates into selecting Jon Snow. At Jon's command in A Feast for Crows, Sam travels to the Citadel with Maester Aemon and Gilly, a wildling girl. He is ordered to become a maester, who serve as healers and advisers. During the journey, he begins a short-lived relationship with Gilly, but he is ashamed because it goes against his vows as a brother of the Watch. He plans to take Gilly to Horn Hill where she and her baby will be safe. At Aemon's command, he tries to get a Maester sent to Daenerys Targaryen, and an Archmaester goes in search of her after hearing his tale. Sam remains at the Citadel to become a Maester, after which he will return to the Wall. Samwell Tarly is portrayed by John Bradley in the HBO adaptation of the novels, while Gilly is portrayed by Hannah Murray.[S 1][S 2]